The Story Behind THIS Famous #NatGeo Cover | A Bit of Optimism #Podcast

Didn't you like survive an avalanche? I did survive an avalanche. So I can I can tell the story. I mean I mean sure. Let's go for it. Here. So I went to climb this mountain called Gasher 2 which is a mountain. It's the 13th highest mountain in the world. We're in the middle of Pakistan in winter. We leave the tent. It's minus 51 centigrade in the tent. We climb through the night on February 2nd and we get to the top and up there it's about - 80. and centigrade centigrade. We make it down to camp 1 the next day. You're in this huge glacial valley, big big glacier with huge creasses and on either side there are these big mountains and now they have 3 ft of snow on them and the wind's been blowing. So it's created a very hazardous situation and I hear this like crack and I'm just I'm like I know what that is and it's an avalanche and I look over my shoulder I see it coming. I say run, but there's no way to run. I mean, you're in waste deep snow. We were mostly taken by the air blast. It just picks us up and throws us 500 feet. And of course, in my mind, I'm like, "Okay, I'm dying." Like, I'm dying. Long story short, we all ended up on top. I would say miraculously, immediately after, as soon as I could get my camera out, I I turned it on and I and I took this video of me crying, just like sobbing because I think there was this sort of dissociation. I was trying to get away from the experience. And so I put a camera between me and it. And then about an hour later, I I took this other photo of me looking at the camera and I've got all this ice all over my beard and just I look shell shocked. That photo became arguably my most famous photo ever. Cover National Geographic. Put on the cover of National Geographic. It opened the door to the skyrocketing of my career. And at the same time, because of complex post-traumatic stress, all of the stuff that happened in childhood, I experienced a profound and prolonged episode of PTSD. Because now I'm in survival mode, which is what PTSD is. I'm constantly just trying to survive and sustain, using all of these coping mechanisms to try to calm that down.
