Entrepreneurship Is Creative Rebellion | A Bit of Optimism #Podcast

I wonder if your form of entrepreneurship uh which is you know getting a bank loan and like there are systems that exist to raise money. I wonder if um if that is a dying breed. Are we neglecting or are we and are there an entire class of entrepreneurs that probably won't bother because somebody's talked them out of it because quote unquote it's not scalable or they can't get venture and so they think it's not viable and or they don't know that there is such thing as a small business loan or credit card debt or friends and family or bootstrapping you know all of these oldfashioned ways of of getting cash infusions to build a business. I'm wondering if that form of entrepreneurship is just going away. I think it is, but I think it always is ready for a resurgence because it'll be a rebellion. And that is actually what entrepreneurship is, is a rebellion, right? That is literally what it is. >> Say more. >> If you take money from someone, you work for them, right? >> You're not an entrepreneur in my mind. Like >> an entrepreneur is taking risks. They are rebelling against a system. They are saying they're planting a flag and say, "I'm going to take a stand for something that doesn't exist." I'm always out talking about start small and build entrepreneurship. That's what I call it. It's like one big bunch of words. But I still believe that in America, anybody can start where they're at and build anything they can imagine. And if >> and and that's the work. I mean, that's what we should be as a country. I still believe it is possible. It is really hard and it's not what we're showing. So if somebody wants to start a business, they see, oh, we have to know somebody, raise money, have some kind of status. >> Um, but then people do it all the time >> without those things and and it seems like it's this, you know, miracle or something. Yeah. >> It's just about one foot in front of the other. One, literally$1 And then another dollar. And another dollar.
