"It's Complicated" (And That's OK) | A Bit of Optimism #Podcast

Was there a time that we were ever not binary? I'm right, you're wrong. Is it worse now or are we romanticizing the past? We're always romanticizing the past and we're always Chicken Littles making our present so bad, so so bad. This binary thing doesn't exist. It's what we superimpose on it and that's why stories become the powerful way in which we both keep the wolf from the door and the wolf from the door I think is our own mortality. Nobody Nobody's getting out of this alive. >> But why do we make things binary? I mean like I don't know if you ever were a Game of Thrones fan. I don't think that every show women have to show their breasts and >> No, that's because it was I don't know if you saw that there's a Saturday Night Live parody that the creative director was a was a 15-year-old boy. Well, [laughter] that that I find hilarious and wonderful. >> Putting that aside, putting that notwithstanding, the thing that was both infuriating and wonderful about Game of Thrones was the good guys the characters we like, the ones who stood for truth and honor and all of that stuff did horrible things Yeah. and the bad guys who were evil and all of this stuff had virtue. It's called a good story. It was so messy and human beings and human relationships it's complicated, it's messy. Do we default to binary because we're not that smart, we want things to be simple, we want explanation. I think it's funny because we accept a complexity in an almost every aspect of our life including on our cable TV choices. In our politics, we want everything to be binary for simplicity. >> Yeah. I've been making films about the US for 50 years, but I've also been making films about us. That is to say the lower case two-letter plural pronoun, all of the intimacy of us and we and our and all of the majesty, complexity, contradiction and even controversy of the US. And the only thing I've learned 50 years is that there's only us. There's no them. It is in the interests of authoritarians if you're speaking politically or in the interests of news media who who just want the simplest way to conflict which is of course the driver of good stories to just make it a binary thing.
