
[00:00:00]
This will tell you the most. This will tell you the biggest thing about me. And this is what's funny about this is I always have this in my pantry. Always. Space ice cream. Always. There's always a space ice cream in my I love you so much for that. This is 100% going like over my dead body. Is this not going I don't know how that will bake. Me neither, but we're going to find out. But hey, what if what if? [Music] So, a bazillion years ago, I went for dinner in New York City at a place called Sambar, which was a David Chang restaurant. And in the back, they had a little thing called Milk Bar, which was their basically the dessert place for the restaurant. Well, I fell in love with one of the desserts called Cereal Milk Ice Cream. And yes, it is the most nostalgic ice cream you could ever eat. It tastes exactly like the milk from the cereal bowl from when we were kids. that sweet milk that we would drink. Little did I know that the founder and owner of Milk Bar would later become one of my

[00:01:00]
closest closest friends, Christina Toy. Christina Toy has gone on to have wild success. We can all buy Milk Bar products in our local supermarkets. You can see her on Netflix and her TV show. She's got multiple cookbooks out, including this one. But best of all, Christina is the most wonderful baker because she bakes with love. It is her love language. Because Christina was in my hometown this week, we thought we would do something different. We would do an experiment. And if there's one thing Christina and I both love, it's the unknown. So that's exactly what we did. We did something we've never done. It could succeed. It could fail. You'll let us know. But no matter what, I know one thing will happen. You will learn how to make a compost cookie. And you will learn how to make the tastiest beer bread of your life. This is a bit of optimism. This episode is brought to you by True Classic. The way they became our sponsor is because I loved their t-shirts and so we just called them up and asked them if they wanted to work

[00:02:00]
together and they said yes. So check out their clothes at trueclassic.com. [Music] So this is this is a thrill for me personally because you were my first guest on a bit of optimism during lockdown. You and I have done this I think two or three more times. Uh we bake because we've baked a zillion time. But but I thought you were in LA. How much fun would it be that we actually baked together? You you and I have never That's not true. We have baked together. I was like every time I come over. Well, it's less about baking and more Simon has an idea. No, no, no. It's about introversion. It's about introversion because I went to a dinner party at your house and there were lots of people who were all outside being entertained by your front of house husband and uh and you disappeared into the kitchen, your happy place so you don't have to talk to people. Turns out I was very close behind you and we ended up experimenting and we invented new breads. We also made new new ice creams. We did

[00:03:02]
a it was an ice cream loaf. That's like bake club. That's what bake club is. It's like, come in, bake with us, learn something new. We're going to set you up for success. And you're the genius cuz it's putting the things together in your home that will bring you delight that you can share. Yeah. I've never talked to you about baking because I'm either doing it with you or we talk about other things. I've actually never talked to you about baking. And now we're going to talk about baking. What was your like where was your entry into baking? Like was it an escape to like because you didn't want to play outside with other kids that you were like I was like I'm just going to be over here baking. Like what? Where did like why baking? Baking. Why not baseball? Yeah. I love to be outdoors and I love sports, but baking. So my mom was a working mom. She's an accountant. So January through April every year. My grandma's, my aunts would watch us basically. And in my family, the matriarchs bake. That's just what you do in your free time. Where'd you grow up? Ohio and Virginia. Yeah, that that's and then my mom would ship me off

[00:04:02]
to Ohio to live with my grandma on her farm every summer so that we didn't we didn't become city kids when we moved to Virginia City kids. Um, and I loved it because uh it was time with them, but really I loved it cuz I like cookie dough. Only I started eating too much of my grandma's cookie dough and she started doing the math and being like, "This is not adding up. This should equal this many cookies." demand planning in her head and she realized I was the culprit and she basically was like no more baking with me because you keep eating the cookie dough you're spoiling your dinner all the grandma things it was like survival of the fittest moment and I wasn't allowed to turn on the oven but I loved cookie dough so I would at a very young age make these concoctions of like I don't know flour sugar things that I remembered putting in and it was trial and error right like if you don't put in enough sugar it's not really cookie dough I'd put a raw egg and be like, "Oo, this is good. You put too much salt in, not enough baking soda, etc." Then I

[00:05:02]
was then got to the age where I could turn on the oven and so these concoctions would actually start baking. And that's I I learned how to bake, selftaught as a home baker. And then I moved to New York City cuz I was like, I want to do this for a living. And then you be went to you went to school fancy culinary school, became a fancy baker, worked in fancy restaurants. Yeah. Cuz I'm intense. I like I like the competitive the inner competitive spirit. I'm going to do it at the highest of my game. So, here's the thing that I find amazing, which is most kids who discover baking, it's it's a it's science. It's following following the formula and their first recipes are memorized, you know, or or you read them. But you you didn't have that. So, from the get-go, it was trial and error. From the get-go, you had to learn like one egg tastes good, three eggs taste bad. And that's how I learned. That's how I Things crumble or things stay together. So, you're baking was never precious for me, right? Most people, why do they bake? because they like the control of it, the science, the security behind it. It's hard, but it's accurate. Yeah. What I love about baking is the

[00:06:02]
opposite of that reason. The thing cuz I've se baked with you before and having experimented with you before, the thing that I love that you do that no one I've never seen anybody else do, which is usually somebody makes a thing, right? And even if they experiment, it'll either work at Walmart and they say, "Ah, next time I'll add this to it." You will have four things going on simultaneously. It's like a conveyor belt. This one's got a little more of this. This one's got a little more of that. This one has less. And you you are you're treating it like a B, C, D, and see which one comes out. And that's what we did when we made the beer bread. 100%. I remember cuz I went and bought the beer. I came. How many bottles of beer did you try? We went through a lot of bottles of beer on the wall. Uh and and we probably tried I remember we tried a raspberry a raspberry beer. We tried a chocolate beer. We tried a stout. We tried like like a fancy beer. We tried a not fancy beer. And we did the same recipe with all these beers until we discovered one we like. That's right. And so for me, baking, I liked all of them. No. Yeah. To be fair, for me, baking and the approach to life is

[00:07:03]
always walking around with this sense of what if? Yeah. What if? What if the raspberry one's really good? What if the chocolate What if What if I put pretzels and chocolate together and swirled them in? What if I put cookie dough, sweet and condensed milk, Ritz crackers, and bugles? Yeah, that sounds gross. In the oven, but there they are. But there they are. I'm looking at them right now. And you never know. And the beauty is there's a bugle on a cookie. The beauty is you don't know. And I I love that part of baking. You only know what you know. And I go into it, then I'm not disappointed because that's the other bit of trial and error. Being a great chef, a great baker, you have to be so good at disappointment. But you know, that's fantastic. So you but even with all your training you know things that go together and things that shouldn't go together. So how often are you actually disappointed? So often because I want to defy the odds for me like Milk Bar was built on we're going to have a bakery and we're not going to have vanilla ice cream and we're not going to cover cakes

[00:08:03]
on the sides and we're not going to make normal cookies that you would find at a bakery and we're going to make pie but it's not apple pie. So you get cereal milk ice cream and you get milk bar pie that's dense and gooey and fudgy that no we pull it out when it is still dense and gooey and right because who knows and who's to say who gets to make the rules where did you come up with the name Milk Bar to name your your company okay it's kind of two parts one milk and bar those are the two parts but I'm from no close no um I my my idea for a milk bar originally and still is like my north star was a modern-day take on Dairy Queen with a bakery case. Like I knew I wanted cookies, cakes, and pies, but for me it was all about a soft serve ice cream machine. And this is before soft serve was anything beyond what you'd find at Dairy Queen or like a roadside custard stand. Chocolate vanilla swap. Yeah. So like Dairy Queen milk bar, you can see that, right? Um,

[00:09:04]
and then I started Milk Bar originally in the back of a Momaf Fuku restaurant because I was helping Dave build all the Momaf Fuku restaurants and the naming convention that we always had was something bar, right? Noodle bar, sambar, sambar, milk bar. So part of it's like the origin story and then the other part is like the nostalgic origin story. So milk was really your homage to Dairy Queen and bars cuz you were forced into it. Got it. There we go. Not forced into it. That was just convention. Yeah. No, no, but you said all of the things were sambar, but it wasn't like it must be this. I just thought that's a beautiful way to homage. You liked it. Okay, it's good. I mean, it's worked for us. What if I said no? That's like that's part of it, you know. So, how much has you how much has baking influenced you as a person in life, your relationships, your friendships, your marriage, your momness, or or the other way around? How much does outside life come into your into your kitchen? Like, which goes first? Um, I think it goes in it has gone through waves in my baking career. Here's what I know about baking. Even

[00:10:06]
after all that I said, I thought I knew why I love to bake. And it wasn't until a few years ago that I realized that I actually love to bake. Not just because I love to eat dessert. I thought that was really the motivating factor. And not just because I love the creative outlet of it, but I do my best talking through dessert. So dessert is my relationship to the world, the community. I'm an introvert. The reason I like to hide in the kitchen is because I want to bake you. I want you to feel known and seen and loved by your not too sweet chocolate cake, right? Like I that's how I say I got you. I'm here for you. I love you. I'm sorry you had a shitty day. Happy birthday. Like anything in between. And um it's your love language. It it's it is. That's why I bake. And it gives me the to give love. It gives me the neverending capability to fall back in love with anything, a simple ingredient, feeling good about a day, being a human in the world, like it is my bit of optimism. I I think what I want I think

[00:11:07]
what I what's important what I want to get across is that too many of us think baking is follow the recipe and it is it's not like cooking. cooking, you can experiment more. In baking, you can't. There's less room for experimentation because if you you change the variables, the science changes, the chemistry changes. Um, and it doesn't work. And this idea that the getting comfortable with failure and that baking is a is an education for getting comfortable with failure. Like it doesn't taste good, so throw it out and make it again. Like, so what? Just what did you learn from it? When you fail from anything in life, what did you learn? Right? Use that. There's always good in something. And for me, if you're not failing, you're not taking risks. You're not growing, right? What have you learned today? I didn't learn anything because I crushed it. How do you define failure? Cuz nobody wants to fail. Things not turning out the way that I thought they would. And guess what? That's fine. If not, that's great. That's flexibility. So, how has this mentality towards your

[00:12:07]
cakes impacted you as a as an entrepreneur? Because you you Milk Milk Bar is your company. Yes. You founded it. Yes, it's had its ups and downs like any other company. You have all the same issues as every other company human in the world, believe it or not. So, I'm I'm very curious because, you know, for me, I can I can look at myself. I know as an entrepreneur and a business owner, like I know what elements of my personality come and show up for better and sometimes worse, but I I know how they show up in work. So, because I'm an artist and I have an artist sensibility and and I love I love seeing things. I love the my senses. I love hearing things, love tasting things. I just love all of that. I know how that shows up in at work. Yes. You know, I love the experimentation. I love the messiness. I love the chaos because for me, creativity is the is the skill of finding order in chaos. Right. Skill finding order in chaos. Creativity is finding order in chaos. And sometimes that chaos is thrust upon you, market conditions, and sometimes I have to inject chaos in

[00:13:08]
order to get some creativity out. So I find in my in for for me for work when it gets stale and sometimes I don't realize things are stale until I realize I'm bored. And when I'm bored I realize it's because there's no and so sometimes I inject creativity. I I inject chaos in order to produce a creative out output. And by the way, not just mine, everybody's like this is a very can I tell you this is a very chef mentality. Really some of the greatest chefs that I worked for were the most drawn to chaos. some some might call it drama, but in a way that was like if it doesn't exist, we're not alive. We don't feel alive. The spirit of getting something done, the herculean effort of it and the sparks that come from that don't exist. I think the difference, at least from TV shows that I've watched about chefs, which probably is a terrible way to make this conclusion, but I don't want to be the hero. I don't want to inject chaos and then be like, and I put it right. It's it's not a it's not like that. It's I want to inject chaos and be like, "All right, everybody. We have a

[00:14:09]
mess. I don't know what to do even if I made it. What are you gonna do?" And I love I love watching people and pushing people to find creative solutions to the mess that sometimes I make. So, what is it about as a baker and the way you bake and the style in which you bake that you can you can make a onetoone correlation to you as a as a as a as an entrepreneur and a business owner. The way you make decisions, the way you lead people, any of it. Any of it. It's this is a human business and if humanity is not a part of what we do, we have failed and anything is possible. But what about being a baker has influenced you as an entrepreneur? Like what like like me as an artist, I can see it. I can see where it comes in as an entrepreneur. So what about you as a baker? How you bake the the way you're approaching baking? You can see you know nothing like ask yourself what if and give it a try. that it's that sense of possibility that is like how did we build a bakery that is locations all over the place a care

[00:15:11]
package business across the country right product in the out like all kinds of crazy stuff it's because we didn't follow a roadmap and we were just like what if but to your point of the creating chaos if we're not asking ourselves what if yeah with this anything is possible mentality and by the way when you're building business right we're 17 years in right now it would be smart to keep just doing what we're doing. Sell the icon, sell the classics. Don't iterate. Like, play it safe. Keep it simple. Right. Go with your greatest hits. Right. But you still have to sing Respect if you're Franklin. You still you still have cereal milk ice cream in the in the machine. But if that's all we're doing, right? Right. The spirit and the heartbeat of who we are, we don't feel like ourselves. We love to do that. And you have to be able to nail your classics every time. But if we're not experimenting and trying and falling flat on our faces and finding these moments, we're being we're suffocating ourselves. It's brilliant. Let's bake. Okay. I want to learn. So you you've

[00:16:11]
made something not with me, but I've been in the room when you're making them, which is a compost cookie. And I knew that we were going to make these cuz I was told I was given one instruction, which is bring stuff from around my kitchen. Just bring stuff. I have no idea if any of the stuff is bakeable. You don't know what I brought. I have no clue what you brought, but I brought stuff from around my kitchen. So, I think every baked good, like it's not about us when we make baked goods. It's about what the baked good does for the person that's eating it. Not too sweet. So, the compost cookie. Yeah. Is a chocolate chip cookie when you don't have enough chocolate chips to make a ch chocolate chip cookie. That was the origin. It's butterscotch chips. It's pretzels. It's potato chips. It's ground coffee. It's graham cracker crumbs. Whatever. It's whatever. It's anything and everything. I used to make it on this island off the coast of New Hampshire. a bad storm would come in, I had to bake for 600 people, breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And it was basically the like, we're not getting any fresh. So, I just go into the pantry and grab stuff. And it became this beloved cookie because people would guess every time. So, this is my bespoked This is your

[00:17:11]
bespoke compost cookie. I also just think it's fascinating what people keep in their pantries. It says everything. It's they're the food that they that fuels them. It's the food that fuels your creative engine. I didn't bring kimchi and it's always in my fridge. That's okay. But you want to know what? I would have gone the distance with you. But I think the food that people keep at home is the most brilliant insight into them. And I think your taste buds are fascinating and they're different than mine. Well, hopefully this will fascinate you. We're trying something a little different. Instead of a traditional host red ad, I invited Ryan Bartlett, the founder of our sponsor, True Classic, to sit down for a conversation. And it turns out there's a lot more that we can learn from him beyond just how great his t-shirts are. And his t-shirts really are great. We call this an ad with authenticity. I was obsessed with reading the reviews about what people were saying about the product. And there was a magical moment very early on. It was in the first

[00:18:11]
couple months where I realized this lady hit hit us up and was like, "Hey, I just wanted to let you guys know that my husband because of your product, he walks out of the house with an air of confidence now that he's never had like ever in his life. I spent $49 on a three-pack and somehow that has translated to confidence in him. I can't tell you how transformational it's been. He doesn't feel self-conscious about how he looks anymore. He's actually proud of himself. So, thank you so much for developing this thoughtful product. It has quite literally changed our lives. And I read that and it just it hit me and I was like, we're not selling t-shirts. We're selling confidence. And like all great companies, what you're doing for your customer, you're doing for your employees. You're building a culture where people feel confident because they have the opportunity to experiment, be their true selves, and build a career with you. Okay, let's see. So, one of my favorite things in

[00:19:12]
the world, I brought what I have left. Yeah. Lap Lapsang Sushang tea. Okay, so we got tea. Really fancy tea. My brother-in-law makes the best granola in the world. His name is Brad and so we call it granola. Okay. I I brought my our favorite almonds. Oh my god. I I introduced you to these almonds, which are almonds from Afghanistan of all things, but they're the tastiest almonds in the world. I had those in the pantry. I have a halfeaten bag of of those are really good of kettle corn pop chips. I love kettle corn everything. Getting some play here. I brought a bag of my optimism coffee. Oh, this stuff. That's that's the magic. Okay, I'm I'm going to loop these into categories. Um I somebody I think somebody stayed at my house and left these in my in my pantry and I don't know what they are but it's some wheat wheat or some sort of wheat puff something or I don't know what it is. Okay. There are things in here that I always believe it or not this will tell you something. You say what's in my pantry tells you about something about

[00:20:12]
who I am. What else you got? I I have I have a chocolate drawer. I know I know about the chocolate drawer. So I just grabbed a lot of bars in the chocolate drawer. Everything from crap to really highend stuff. This is going to be the most primo. Yeah. Yeah, there's some fancy chocolate we've ever seen. Then cuz I'm an Englishman, I always have English chocolate. I love you that you have I have dark chocolate Kit Kat. I have Maltesers. I have Cadbury's Cadbury's white buttons. Um, now this will tell you the most This will tell you the biggest thing about me. And this is what's funny about this is I always have this in my pantry. Always. Space ice cream. Always. There's always a space ice cream in my I love you so much for that. This is 100% going like over my dead body. Is this not going to I don't know how that will bake. Me neither, but we're going to find out. But hey, what if what if it works? Maybe you'll be having space ice cream cookies as a result of this 10 out of 10. Fancy peanut butter. Ooh. Oh, that peanut butter is so good. Yeah, it's got everything in it. Now, I I bought these

[00:21:12]
cuz I tried to convince myself that carob chips are healthier. Are they? I don't know. I don't know if they are. You're talking to the wrong person, but bring it over here cuz I want to taste them. And then they're good. Pretty good. And then these were left over from Hanukkah. Oh. So, and I didn't eat them. Oh, Lake Champagne. They make nice chocolates. Somebody must have given these to me. I definitely didn't buy them. The flavor of a carob chip is interesting. I kind of like it. I used to hate it. It's a little um I hated it as a kid. It's a little um molassy, but I don't think that's a bad thing. Oh, that's for later. That's for later. Okay. Beer for later. And then some coconut, but that's just because it was in my cupboard. So, a normal compost cookie, pretzels, potato chips, dark chocolate chips, butterscotch chips, graham crackers, oats. So, I've sort of categorized. I think you need a minimum of one thing from each category. Okay, this is already going in. So, this is sort of the nutty seedy category of things. So,

[00:22:12]
one from there, one or two from here, I think could be interesting. We do have to think about flavor story cuz this is peppermint. So, let's do malt teasers. Okay. Love that. Because um And then what else do you want to do? You want to do some dark chocolate? You want to do some carob or buttons? You tell me. You tell me. I think maybe the buttons will be too much with the space. I don't Yeah, you don't like super sweet. So, I think we got to go dark, which puts us in this category. Let's do super fancy. Okay. Let's do the the crew the noir. I mean, I'd rather just eat this. Oh, that's an interesting point. So, you want to do carrot chips? Let's do Let's do this. 85%. Okay. Great. But this is And then I think you're either doing a wheat puff or a Let's do that one. Let's do that. Okay. And then you do you want it to be tea or coffee? Let's smell this. Smell. Well, one's hazelnut profile and the other one. This is going to be smokeoky. I don't think you want smokeoky. And um have some elatarak chocolate. That's really good. So good.

[00:23:13]
Then let's just coffee. But you have to brew it though. Can't put coffee in it. We'll grind it. But that you can put a co You can put coffee in it. Okay. That really is compost. What if? What if? What if? Okay, great. We've got it. By the way, you talk about what if. This entire um you and I doing a cooking show. Um that's what is an experiment. This could be an absolute disaster failure. I'll tell you what, I had a great time. No. Okay. So, first things first, which one are you want to choose? Do you want to do the granola? Granola. We got you, Brad. Okay. So, we're going granola, malt teasers, chocolate, space ice cream, pop thingies, and then um almonds. Almonds. Oh, we're not doing We're not doing almonds. Granola. Granola. What? And then I'm going to grind some of your granola. Granola's fun. This is very You will have it. I'm trying to eat them. I can't get and then

[00:24:13]
Phils. Simon fills. Okay, I'm going to start chopping some stuff up. In the meantime, you're going to do 101. When you're making a cookie, you got to start with fat and sugar, and you paddle them together. So, I've got unsalted butter, sugar, light brown sugar. Yeah, you got it. And some granulated sugar. We have to say we did not precook pre-bake the cookies because I literally just showed up with the ingredients. Couldn't do it. Couldn't do it. So, what was the other thing I had to add to this? Just those three. We're going to start there. Okay. So, butter and sugar cream together till it's nice and smooth. You got it. Like 101. It's all about a homogeneous mixture. It's all about scraping down the sides of the bowl to get it going. I'm very right now. It's very crumbly. Let's just keep it keep it going. Just keep it going. It'll come together. You can We'll do this. Ready? Yeah. really good. Turn turning up the

[00:25:19]
Yeah. Oh, we're making dough. We're making dough. All right. When I When I was a kid, I used to like dipping my finger in the butter and then dipping it in the sugar and then eating it off my finger. This is honestly baking with children and watching them interact with ingredients is one of my favorite things. No, I just mean you did it as a kid because you looked at it with this kid. Kid in air quotes with this childlike sensibility, right? Are you ready for this? See this? No. This is glucose. It is a significantly less sweet inverted sugar compared to corn syrup. But we put glucose in all of our cookies at Milk Bar because it guarantees you're going to get a nice dense fudgy centered cookie. Okay. And because there's water activity in it. Yeah, it guarantees that your cookie stays nice and moist and fudgy for multiple days. Um, did I ever tell you that um I think that uh the the Great British Baking Show is the greatest television on

[00:26:20]
television. Did I ever tell you that? Because second to your show only. Second to your show only. It's it's it champions the spirit a tr the true altruistic spirit of a baker. It's it's it's it's it's it to me it's the way life should be, which is we can compete against each. It's a show with winners and losers. Somebody will be declared a winner. Every day somebody's thrown off the the the the show. It has loers. And yet, even though it's a competition, they help each other. And that to me is the spirit of what life should be. We can compete against each other and help each other simultaneously. They're not mutually exclusive. Also, you can just compete against yourself. Like that too. We don't need a we don't need a loser to have a winner. No, but the fact is it is a competition in that case. Oh, so that's the ice cream sandwich. The space ice cream sandwich. I will admit I prefer the Neapolitan. I'm kind of into this. It's going to give us a cookies and cream moment. Yeah. Yeah. Got a real fun little situation happening. And then do you feel like you

[00:27:20]
have a nice homogeneous mixture? It feels pretty homogeneous. It feels nice. You don't have any specks. There's a lot of a lot of homogeneity going on here. Okay, great. You got to put all the dry ingredients together before you Oh, I it up. No, you're fine. But I will tell you when it makes a difference, and that will You won't You didn't mess it up. But Also, this is fun. Thank goodness this is your kitchen and not mine. This flour just went everywhere. It happens. Can I tell you even to this day? I'm I'm spilling. I'm mixing. I'm dropping an egg. It all happens. It happens. You know what? Let's just leave the mess. Mess is good. Mess means apparently in Chinese food if you leave a mess it means you enjoyed your meal. Highest compliment. So I am okay. Whoa. Whoa. Doing good. So we want a tender. We want to we want the cookie to be on this spectrum which means as we add the flour we want to mix it as little as possible because the more we mix it the closer it gets on

[00:28:21]
the spectrum to bready. Oh got it. Which is okay. So let's scrape this down. And now we're going to put our mixins in. You want to taste some dough? No. That's good. And I didn't I didn't screw it up too badly. You didn't? Of course not. You got it. For me, this is This is why I got kicked out of the kitchen. Why? This moment. Cuz you would stick your finger. Once I have one bite of cookie dough, I have to like take two grown-up steps away from it. Now, wait. Wait. This is very tasty. And I can taste the um I can taste the brown sugar. It's so good. Yeah, I like brown sugar. All right, so we're going to add some goodies. Okay. It's as much or as little as you want. Well, does it all just get thrown in? Yeah. And we're going to let the the heft of the paddle break some of these bigger pieces down. What I love in a compost. So, we're putting we're putting in um my leftover kettle corn pop chips. It's going to be good. Those are tasty. Okay, this is the most exciting one of all.

[00:29:22]
That's just going to be huge and chunky though. No, no, no. It'll break down after you think there's a piece in there. Why don't you eat it? Do you eat it? No, just eat it. So, we have now put in the the And now we put in the ice cream sandwich. The Sorry, the space ice cream sandwich. We're putting in some granola homemade family. I think this one's going to be the reason you really like it. I think so, too. Then lots of dark chocolate. Very fancy dark chocolate. 85% bunch of malt teasers. This is a fun one because you're never this untidy about how you think about anything. You absolutely got me wrong. Well, you're you're intentional. Everybody thinks I'm neat and organized and the biggest surprise neat and organized. It's the biggest surprise everybody has me of me, which is I'm messy. I But look at this. But you're But you're like, "This isn't how one should bake. You think baking is a certain way." And I'm like, "No, no, no. It's more free. Let's make a mess. This is true. This is This is true. This is free form baking. You're like that in these other places. And that's where your

[00:30:22]
brilliance comes out. Oh, this is ridiculous. So, now we just turn on the mixer. And it it sounds like it's the mint mixer with what's going on. It's never going to be homogeneous, right? Look at this. This is either brilliant or disgusting. I can't figure it out. It's your taste buds, babe. No, it's just the random stuff I brought from the kitchen. It's just random. Okay. Let's take a peek at this. I see this. But to hearken back to Christina's childhood, you're staring at it like it's But what are you staring at? What do you What do you Because what I see is a glob of mess. What do you see as a professional baker? What I love about it is that when I look at it, I see texture. I see color. I see flavor. And I see possibility. So, I see these big pieces of malt teasers, these dark chocolate balls that I know are filled with this molted milk crunch, but some of them have broken down. All of your popcorners have broken down into much smaller pieces. So, I know I'm going to get a little corny. The um Optimism coffee is speckled throughout, which

[00:31:23]
excites me because I know it's going to be bitter in a way that's good for your taste. It's very hazelnutty. It's very hazy. It is. But I'm not mad at that because then you get all the nuts and the seeds from the granola. You get these chia pops and these big and small nuts that are all super earthy and then you have these still pretty giant pieces of space ice cream. And I love that cuz they are the total wild card of how will they bake? We have no idea if they'll melt or keep pushing. You know what? Let's do it. We're going to scoop and bake. My favorite thing about this is is for the the number of years you've been baking that here I am that something is is going to happen that you have no clue and you've never done. That brings that brings me joy. I love it. Okay, we learn together. We fail together. Like that's also the spirit of team, right? But this is why it's fun together. We learn together with somebody. Okay. You got a scoop. I got a scoop. So here's my thing in scooping. One, baking 101. When you're making cookies, you want to use a cookie scoop because you want all of your cookies to be the same amount so that they bake evenly on this. I've always used a spoon and it's never

[00:32:24]
worked. To use an ice cream scooper kind of genius is the best. So I'm going to do kind of an oversized scoop. I'm not. Well, then I Well, then you're you're going on your own tray because they won't bake evenly if they aren't the same amount cuz they're going to go in the oven on the sheet tray for the same time. Do we flatten them or leave them? I don't No, I don't want to flatten them cuz I'm really curious. They look like giant ice cream scoops of the most random cookie dough. Yeah. You've never thought of. This is I've never made cookies so easily because I It's always difficult. This ice cream scoop thing is a game changer. So, I'm going to take your cookies and I'm actually going to arrange them with like two to three inches between them on the baking sheet because they will spread when they bake and you want to give them enough space. All right. You could get more on there. I know I can. I wanted to make sure you had enough. Mine I'm really gilding the lily in the size of my You're the best. And you know what? I realized it really doesn't matter that I hit my fingers cuz they're going to get in the oven and fire cleans everything. You're going to be fine. Yeah. Okay, great. We'll do one

[00:33:25]
more on mine. Oh, I got some big popcorners. Now, this is the ultimate. Look at the bottom of this bowl. It is just littered with great ideas and flavors. I'm licking the spoon. I'm licking the bowl. Okay, great. This is This is I know you're having a really good time because you've lost yourself in it. For me, baking is like my favorite activities in life. Baking, going for a hike, running is the like lose yourself, find yourself. Yeah. You haven't When have you thought about the rest of life? What have you thought about what your could? We have a giant mess of flour and cookie dough and crumbles of all types all over this prep table. My dreams and ambitions are all over the table. You're all baking's a science and I'm all baking's chaos. Put whatever you want. I know. This has made me very happy. I have a renewed love or a new a new found love of baking because I always thought it was like getting the ingredients at the right levels. So, let's just go through what's in this fantastic cookie. We have a bit of optimism, the compost cookie. The bit of optimism the compost cookie. So we have flour, salt, baking soda, baking powder,

[00:34:25]
egg, glucose, brown sugar, white sugar, all mixed together. Butter. Butter. Lots of butter. Then the added ingredients are kettle corn popcorn popcorners. Uh dark chocolate malt teasers, which are malt bowls from England. We have fancy dark chocolate, just a bar, which we cut up. We have my optimism coffee that I collabed with Phil's which we put in here which is amazing. That's such good coffee. Um we put granola which is the homemade granola that my brother-in-law makes. We have space ice cream which is freeze-dried ice cream that you can buy at any science museum if it wasn't a part of your childhood. That's when I first discovered it and it has been in my closet ever since. All right. So we're going to take these to the oven. in my cupboard ever since. Your cupboard 350 8 to 10 minutes. Mine are going to bake a little longer cuz I made really big hunks of cookie dough. That's just 350 degrees Frenheit for 8 to 10 minutes. That's it. That's it. Oh,

[00:35:26]
that's easy. I like mine overcooked. Well, then we'll leave them in for the same amount. Do you know that about Do you know that about me? Like when there's a when there's a chocolate chip cookie recipe that says 10 minutes or 20 minutes, I do 40. This is my face. Okay. I promise to still love you even though I know that. Like it's that's against everything I believe in. I It's not like It's kind of like tea. Like I'll drink tea however you give it to me, but if I make it myself, it's going to be a very specific color. Well, you know what? Plate of cookies. Same with cookies. I like cookies however you give them to me, but if I make them myself, I'm overdoing them. I think it's the I think it's a space ice cream. No, you know, I can tell you what it is. It's I like them right before they burn that dark dark dark brown cuz everything's so caramelized. That's why it is. It's a depth of flavor. Thank you. Come on. Is that Is that the beer? We're making beer bread. That's Sammy Smith's. That's Yeah. Oh, you went and got it? Yeah. The clock here's open. Do you want an excuse to be drinking at work? No. But that's so good. That's why I was like, what? So, this is important. We're about to make beer bread. Beer bread. So, I discovered beer

[00:36:27]
bread many years ago where it was made for me. And I asked the people who made it for me to give me the recipe and they did. I couldn't find some of the recipes. There was some sweetener in there I couldn't find. So, I just started using honey and I used to make beer bread all the time. Then I was with you and I was like, "Hey, can we make beer bread?" And you're like, "Hey, I've never made beer bread." And I was like, "Well, let's make beer bread because it's idiot proof and I can make it." You made one tweak to my recipe. Instead of flour, self-rising flour, which has been a gift because now I get a little more because it's such a dense bread. It's a little dense now and it raises a little bit. And I've experimented for years with so many different beers. And we did that one night of beer beers on the wall. And we discovered that the best beer for beer bread was what's it called? Samuel Smith's Organic Chocolate Stout. It's a good beer. It is a good beer and it has existed since 1758. God bless. Can I tell you that I also because I love to ask the question, what if like a month or two ago just started

[00:37:27]
going at not just beer bread, but stuff like what if I put a ripe banana into a chocolate stout beer bread? And then I took it as far as what if I take what are other brews? Kombucha. What if I make a kombucha beer bread? Okay, it's gonna be sweeter and a little bit more berry for it and then add some berries in it. My kids are obsessed with it's not even kombucha beer bread, but what then is it? It's a very bougie bougie bch bread. But the thing that I love about beer bread and this and this this I probably shouldn't say this on the air because this is what I do. But for Thanksgiving, you know, everybody brings something to Thanksgiving and I'll make one, two, or three loaves of beer bread and I come in and people like, "Who made the bread?" I'm like, "I made the bread." And people think I'm kneading dough and I'm spending all day making beer bread is about it's about five minutes of mixing ingredients and then putting it in the oven for about what an hour a little less than an hour. That's all beer bread. It is it is absolutely idiot proof. It's reverse engineering what makes bread, right? It makes people the

[00:38:27]
joy that I give people thinking that I made bread and I they don't realize that I did it like 20 minutes before I came to Thanksgiving. And it's because you're taking all of the elements of bread making, but you're re reverse engineering them in your favor, right? So, the yeast is already in the beer. It's already alive and well. We don't need to wake it up. Okay. Well, then let me put this in the micro real quick. But I've got our salt. I've got honey if you want honey. But then I saved some room temperature salted butter over here for us just in case. Well, I always melt it. Okay. Great. So, I pour it in. Great. What? So, I'll put this together. So, I'm putting the the flour, which is self-rising flour, into the bowl. I'm now putting the Which salt do I use? I'll use the salt. I put the salt into the thing. And mix those together. I'm still making a mess even though there's no mix master. Um, Christina is melting the honey and the butter while I will add the beer. Very

[00:39:30]
slowly. Slowly pouring the beer into the flour. How's it going, chef? Good. Slowly adding the beer into here. Perfect. All right, I'm grabbing our cookies cuz they look really good. Are they ready done? Almost. So, basically, you can make a compost cookie in less time than it takes to mix a bowl to mix a beer bread. A bowl of beer bread. It smells so good. I know. Okay. So, yes, I do. It's now getting It's very gluteny and gooey. So, what should So, let's add um a little bit of butter. Add butter. And I'm going to add Is this honey? I'm going to add the honey. So, I always melt the honey in the microwave. Oh, I just did that. She's liquid. And I do the same thing with the butter just to make it liquid, to make it easier to stir in. No other reason. So, adding the honey. Okay, the honey is now

[00:40:32]
in. Um, I did recently discovered silicone bread things. Oh, silicone molds are so nice. They have easy release. So easy. So easy. All right, I'm going to give our loaf pan. And by the way, I'm a really big fan of an 8 by4 inch loaf pan because you get a taller beer bread loaf. Now, am I going to What am I doing to it? Can I I One can over knead bread. Can I over stir beer bread? I think to over stir beer bread, you'd have to be at it for seven plus minutes. It takes seven minutes to fully develop gluten in a traditional bread recipe. So, you'd have to really go at it. That's so specific. I got your back. Seven minutes. The scientists are my sweet food scientists of the world. The Harold McGee of the world defined that for me. Seven minutes to fully produce gluten once it comes together in a mass. 7 minutes. Christina to gave me a a a um an aluminum nine. What are these? 8 by three. 8 by 3 and

[00:41:33]
3/4 whatever. Bread pan, loaf pan. Uh we sprayed it with some sort of spray thing. And now I'm putting my dough into the pan. There we go. And it goes very gooey looking. I've made this many times and it's very good. I make it every Thanksgiving because it's easy and tasty and a crowd favorite. Okay. I'm just flattening it out a little bit for no reason. Um, and then I'm going to add a little butter to the top. I always save a little bit extra just to add to the top because it makes it shiny and tasty. And now I have to wait here patiently for Christina to come back because I don't know. I guess I can go back to the

[00:42:33]
oven. Okay, I'll go back to the oven. All right, compost cookies. So, we're going to do two things. We're going to do the magic of television. We have our actual compost cookies that we actually made. And here they are. You want to put those over here? Yeah, I did. Uh that we actually made and we did the magic television where you pre-baked a loaf of bread. Yeah. Because otherwise it would take too long. What do you think? We taste the bread first and our cookies have a minute to kind make me your perfect bite so I can taste it through your eyes. Okay. So I'm experimenting here. A nice room tempe butter. Some salt a little on top. I love salt on a little piece of bread. It's a my it's again going back to my childhood. My grandfather always put butter on his bread and always put salt on the butter and to this day no matter what. Yeah. So it's it's somewhat tasty and somewhat nostalgic for me. Okay. Cheers. Cheers. to friendship. To friendship. It's so good. It's so simple and so good. Oh, that salt when it comes around and like

[00:43:34]
dances on and your taste buds and that chocolate beer. The acid of that chocolate beer. You know me, I like sweet. So, I'm going to put some honey on this, babe. So good. Should we try one of our cookies? Yeah. Do you like Do you like a fresh out of the oven cookie? I do. But you like crispy. I I let my cookies cool. So, we've got some This I'm very excited about. I love it. Look at Look at the peaks and valleys, the texture of these cookies. So, we got some thinner, crispier for me. Some taller, gooers for Which one do you want to try? This one? That? Okay. All right. So, we're choosing one of mine. More cookie dough. Same bake time, but we've got some real goo in the center. This has got some crunch in it. Chew, right? Crunch. Chew. It's got all the all the all the things. This is Oh, it's going to be a real culinary adventure here. Wow. For me, this is I know you're

[00:44:35]
apported by this, but there's like there's a little inner stripe of just cookie dough. Warm cookie dough. It's not a Simon crisp. It's a Christina goo. Cheers. Oh my god, it's a good cookie. The coffee that works. Oh my god, I like this cookie a lot. You know what? The other thing that would make this perfect was that it was crunchy. Yeah. Oo, there's something. That's a good cookie. This is a sellable cookie. I purposefully If you want to sell a bit of optimism cookies in your in your stores, you feel you feel free. Wow. I just have to get my brother-in-law to start making granola. Granola a mess. We will give the recipe in the notes 100%. Do your kids like to bake? Um, my kids love Each of them is different. One of them, air quotes, likes to bake because she's here for the cookie dough. She's here for the Simon butter, sugar. She's

[00:45:36]
her She's her mother's daughter. Yeah. The other one loves to bake because he truly loves, from what I can tell, he truly loves bringing something to life. He loves the act of creation. Does Will like baking or does Will like eating baked goods? No. Will has no interest in baking. Will has every interest in. Honey, can you put one of every cookie on a plate and bring it to me? The movie's starting like this is But you know what? That's what makes a great relation. Well, it's your I know. So, your love language. I have I remember I came to your house for brunch. And because I know who you are, I said, "Can you please make biscuits?" Because I love biscuits for brunch and you're Christina Tozy. So, to have your biscuits will be amazing. But because you're Christina Toy, I expected a biscuit. We got five different kinds of biscuits. We had ones with bacon, ones with cheese, ones with chives, ones what if I mean the number of bis and then so which is awful because then you have to eat them all and compare and you have to eat them again because you're like I don't know maybe I like this better. A

[00:46:36]
really rough day for you. It was a rough day. I love when people come over to my house and ask for something because to the point earlier like now I know that it's your love language so much five different kinds of biscuit. I mean you don't get more love than that. You're not questioning whether you're feeding people what they want to eat. You know, you are. Yeah. It's so And you're giving them permission to eat six different biscuits. It's so good. So, here's what I've learned. I've learned that there's one thing better than baking, which is baking with friends. Uh I've learned that Do you know the whole thing about um like Duncan's cakes? The history of those? I think it was in the 50s they came out with powdered cakes and all you had to do is add water and you could you could make a cake and it was a failure because um people were embarrassed that they didn't do anything. They didn't bake the cake. So they changed the chemistry of it and they made one difference which is I think you add an egg. You add egg, oil and water. You add egg, oil and water.

[00:47:36]
They changed the chemistry. So you now you add water, egg and and oil and now people could honestly say I baked a cake because they mixed in an egg and some oil and of course it exploded. So the idea that people can bake a cake, bake something for someone as a sign of love and putting in a little effort, right? Because with no with no egg and no oil that felt that there was no effort. And what I'm learning from you is I've I've never one of the reasons I don't bake by myself unless I'm baking just almond cookies for myself at night, but they're easy. Is because I don't want to get it wrong. And what I've learned here is it's nothing about getting it right or wrong. It's experimentation. And to be able to say, I just put something together. I threw some ingredients and the compost cookie is perhaps the most lovable cookie in the world because you literally can't screw it up and some will taste better and some will taste worse and some will prefer this and some will prefer that. But it is this is this cookie is compost cookie doesn't do it justice. It's it's a it's a cookie full of love. And so this was wonderful and I got a beer bread out of the deal. So and

[00:48:37]
we got like we got so many seven minutes in there. So many seven minutes. So eight eight minutes. We got so many eight minute blocks in there. so many 8 minutes blogs that we yeah you and I talked about that eight minute story. So when in one of the episodes that you came on a bit of optimism we talked about what the value of a friend was and I told you the story that happened with my friend Maria where she was going through a hard time. I hadn't seen her in a while and I I'm at her house and uh I was like how are you? She's like I'm better now. I'm like what do you mean better now? She's like well I had a hard week last week. I'm like why didn't you had a hard week? Why don't you text me? She goes I did text you. I'm like, "No, you didn't." And instead of being like sympathetic, I got mad because, you know, to be of service to our friends is a gift and like deny me the gift of being in service to my friend. And she goes, "I did text you." And I pulled out my phone to prove that she didn't. And it said, "How are you? What are you doing? Want to come over?" I'm like, "You mean these texts, the ones that sound like every other text you send me? How am I supposed to know that's a cry for help?" And she had read this article that all somebody needs to feel not

[00:49:37]
alone is eight minutes of time with a friend. And so we came up with a code which is um do you have eight minutes? And that basically means I need you. And anybody can step out of a meeting for eight minutes. And you're not going to solve the problem. You're not going to be there in, you know, for the hour, the hour and a half. But to make someone feel not alone for those eight minutes is everything. Somebody sent me a picture recently that they were so inspired by that story that they made hats for all their friends that say eight minutes on them. Like you're my eight minute club. Like you're my eight minute friend. Isn't that amazing? And by the way, the eight minutes can be literally making a compost. Can be literally making a compost cookie. Literally, it takes eight minutes. And so you and I have talked about this before, but you and I are and have been eight minute friends to each other, and I am very grateful for that. Through the years, the feeling is mutual. Best. All right, let's let's just go eat. Can we just go eat everything now? I want I've been staring at these the whole time. There are a set that you actually made, but I want to eat them all. Bugle bars, Gretas. All right, they're all gooey. Why don't we cut and have the whole crew come eat?

[00:50:40]
A bit of optimism is brought to you by the optimism company and is lovingly produced by our team Lindseay Garbinius, David Jaw, and Devon Johnson. If I was able to give you any kind of insight or some inspiration or made you smile, please subscribe wherever you enjoy listening to podcasts for more. And if you're trying to get answers to a problem at work or want to advance a dream, maybe I can help. Simply go to simonsick.com. Until then, take care of yourself. Take care of each other.