
[00:00:00]
Any life hacks or career hacks that you have that have that have benefited you that you think people could learn from you? Like a way, you know, simple a simple hack that helps you be more productive or a simple hack that helps you sort of be more disciplined. Anything that you you've implemented in your life that we can learn from you. Yes. One of the biggest ones would be immersive experiences. And what I mean by that is if I want to do something and I think it might be a good idea, I'm going to block out my whole weekend and test it out. So, let's say I wanted to learn tennis as a hobby. I would just block out my whole weekend and play tennis all weekend. I'd watch tennis videos. I'd read tennis things just to see whether I have taste for it. Because I think it's really hard to do things I don't have taste for. And so, if I'm getting along with someone, I'm like, "Well, let's just spend the next two days together." Because then I'll get to know whether there's something really here. And that way you can make quicker decisions. You can test more in less time. And you can figure out very quickly whether something's real or not. So, I try and do block learning and block experimentation. block immersion

[00:01:00]
because it saves you time and energy in the long run as opposed to this like 5 minutes a day. It's like I don't know. That's so good. Do you know what the Do you know what the the analogy is? It's like when you want to buy a new car, you go test drive it. And you drive it for 10 minutes down one road and you're supposed to decide whether you like it or not and spend tens of thousands of dollars or whatever, you know, to buy this car. But then you get it and it's not like Yeah. But what you're saying is borrow the car for the weekend and then tell us if you'd like to buy it. Yeah, exactly. Well, well, here's the crazy thing. very different kind of test drive. Literally. Well, here's here's the crazy thing. I only realized this through a mistake I made a few years ago. We all rent or buy apartments and homes without ever sleeping in them. Sleeping is the most important thing you're going to do in a new apartment or a new home. And the fact that we all buy or rent homes and apartments without ever test driving and experimenting and experiencing means you have no idea. So, I'll give you an example. Me and my wife rented a home during the pandemic. As

[00:02:00]
soon as we realized it was going to be a bit longer, we wanted to move into a bigger space. We we moved into this home. The We saw this home during the day cuz you don't go and see a home at night. Who does a house viewing at past 7:00 p.m.? You don't do that. Saw the house in the day, it was beautiful, really really beautiful, really special. The night we get there, we realized that the surroundings are infested with frogs. All we could hear was croaking. Now, for me, I don't like the sound of croaking, and I know some people find it I know people Yeah, for me it was not that way. So, we're like, wait a minute, are frogs going to get end up in the house? Some of them did. Uh the next thing you know, that there were animals in the floorboards, animals in the sideboards, the generator that was off during the day because you didn't need it was right behind the master bedroom. And we were thankfully we were renting, we didn't buy it, but it was just one of those experiences and I couldn't wait to leave. And so, anyway, that's that's one of the hacks. Very good. No, that's very good. Thank you very much. Yeah.