
[00:00:00]
[Music] Do you have a life hack or a work hack? Something little little little shortcut that has really helped you be more productive, maybe be more present, whatever, whatever it is, it doesn't matter. A little life hack that you want to share with us. Play frisbee in the middle of the day. Say more. I just think being in the space all day of like your work space or the work environment or in the problem all day for me doesn't Sometimes it works, but when I'm exhausted, I'm like, I'm not getting the breakthrough. I just need to go and throw a football, play Frisbee, hacky sack, pingpong. I need to do some activity where I'm not thinking about it. And usually the solution comes to me when I'm forcing your brain to think to be focused on something else. Yeah. And when I think like you kind of think about a problem while you're like trying to focus on balancing and that's just what works for me because I'm more of like a kesthetic type of person. I just like to move. Yeah. If I'm walking on the walking treadmill, something where I can move and play, I truly feel like when I play, I activate my childlike curiosity better and I get into a more relaxed state. And when I relax, I'm able to receive better information or

[00:01:01]
downloads or whatever it is, solutions to the problem. So, I think when we're tensed and we're forcing it, sure, sometimes I can get the result, but it just feels more enjoyable when I play. I love it. These are I mean I feel like they're very basic actionable things but it's but I think good hacks are that's what makes them hacks right they're simple little things that help us be more my business partner literally said we do a weekly gratitude call I mean a team call but a gratitude is what we start with uh on Mondays and he said you know what I'm grateful for is that Lewis gets me out of my analytical mind when I just want to work work work the problem and he's like let's go out for 30 minutes and throw the Frisbee. He literally just said this yesterday and it reminded me that like just bringing play and joy whenever there's pain. I love it. [Music]