
[00:00:00]
Welcome back everyone. Welcome. This morning we spent time talking about marketing and technology and this afternoon we're shifting into partnership. And it's the combination of those three things that makes me incredibly optimistic. And I'm here with Simon Synynic, a self-described unshakable optimist. Simon is the host of a podcast called A Bit of Optimism and the author of three best-selling and I can vouch for them. Very good books, uh, including The Infinite Game, which was recently published. And Simon, I'm very nervous. Very, very nervous. And >> well, you know the trick to that, right? >> I do. When you're nervous, you say I'm excited. >> Exactly. >> I read that on Simon. But here's the thing, Simon. You were here in 2017 and after every event we sent out a survey and you were the highest rated speaker by far. By far. And not just of that

[00:01:00]
year, but any year that we've done this event. The highest. So I guess we said, well, how let's have Simon come back and how can we possibly make that better? And here I am. >> So >> well, that's that's humbling. Thank you. Thank you. It's nice to be back. It's nice to be back. >> And it's great to have you. And what what is it about your message that resonates with so many of us? >> You know, I think it's I think it's human. I think it's a distinctly human message. You know, it's embarrassing that I have a career. I talk about trust and cooperation. There should be no demand for any of my work. Um but I think the reason there is demand is because it's a very human experience that all of us are going through. I I don't then the message that I share is my own. I struggle with trust. I struggle with cooperation. I struggle with all the same things and I'm on my journey trying to figure it out for myself and for the people I love and it turns out if something resonates for me and my friends, it resonates for other people. So, I think it's a it's a it's a very real message and it always has

[00:02:00]
been. >> And we we were talking backstage, Simon insists on not getting questions in advance because he wants it to be, you know, real and authentic. >> I have no idea what you're gonna ask. That is true. Um, well, like I said this morning, we talked a lot about technology and um, I love how you say that technology isn't inherently good or inherently bad. How do all of us how do we make sure that technology is making our lives better? So, technology is supposed to alleviate a stress, right? Um, and just because we have the ability to do things with technology doesn't mean we should. You know, you know, I'm I sound like an old man when I talk about this, but like why do we have to put flat screens on everything? You know, it's like I'm in my car and I want the volume between seven and eight, but a dial I could do that, but a button I can't. And and so like whenever anybody's going to apply technology or apply AI, I'm sure that's a big topic top topic for you guys.

[00:03:01]
>> You did mention AI twice. >> Yeah, it happened. It's like the topic of every conference. Um uh the question I always want to know is what are we solving for? And because if we overindex on the technology, we're actually creating problems we didn't know that we were making where and what we're we're starting to see it like social media and cell phones were a great idea and wonderful, but we didn't think it all the way through and we've created new problems. Addiction, depression, and now we're sort of trying to like whoops, you know, and so I I always like to to think what what good will come of this or so so what's next? um and trying to envision some of the things we're accidental problems we might be creating. >> It's hard to do because the technology moves so fast and I think it's accelerating. >> Um we're all in the travel industry and um Expedia is a technology company in this very human- centered industry. Um you talk in your your book about and actually you give a great example of a hotel here in Las Vegas about the human will. >> Noah. Yeah. >> Yeah. You want to share about that? It's

[00:04:01]
it's it's such a good story and it still resonates and it's one of those that could never be repeated because this unique set of circumstances >> and you can talk about the good hotel just don't talk about the bad hotel. >> Yes, I will do that. Um uh now now you've made like me like really >> so tempted. Don't press the button. Um, okay. So, I was in Vegas for a business trip a bunch of years ago and the client put me up at the Four Seasons, which is a lovely hotel. Um, and the reason that Four Seasons is lovely is not because the beds, though the beds are nice, it's because the people who work there. Well, they happen to have a coffee bar at the Four Seasons down here, which you can go visit, and in the lobby. And one afternoon, I went and bought myself a cup of coffee. And the uh barista working that day was a kid named Noah. Noah um was funny and engaging and charming and I had way too much fun just buying a cup of coffee. So, as is my nature, I asked Noah, um do

[00:05:02]
you like your job? >> And without skipping a beat, Noah said, "I love my job." Now, in my line of work, that's significant. Like versus love, right? Like is rational. I like the people. I like the challenge. I get paid well. I like my job. Love is emotional. It's a higher order connection. It's like, "Do you love your husband? I like him a lot." You know, not the same. So Noah said, "I love my job." So immediately my ears perked up. >> And so I asked him, "Tell me specifically what the Four Seasons is doing that you would even say to me, I love my job." And again, without skipping a beat, he said, "Throughout the day, managers will walk past me and ask me if there's anything they can do to make my job better. Not just my manager, any manager." And then he said, "I work for another hotel as well, and there they um they drive performance. They catch us doing things wrong. There I just like to keep my head below the radar. I just want to get through the

[00:06:02]
day and collect my paycheck." And he said, "Only at the Four Seasons do I feel I can be myself." Now, if you think about this, our experience of Noah at these two different hotels will be profoundly different, not because of Noah, but because of the leadership environment in which he works. And so often we blame the people who are on the front line for the customer experience when we never consider who they working for. What's the leadership environment that they've created? And so to to be able to make that comparison was a once for me a once in a-lifetime experience that same person two different places entirely different point of view about his work. >> Yeah. You you have a quote or at least I attribute a quote to you. I think you said this um and it was working hard for something we do not care about is called stress. Working hard for something we love is called passion. >> Yes. >> Sounds like Noah had a passion >> created by that environment. Yeah, that that is one of my quotes. Thank you. Um I sometimes I sometimes get credit for

[00:07:03]
John Quincy Adams quotes which I'm also grateful for. Um he was pretty good. Um uh uh that is true. Um you know when we talk about stress and passion in both circumstances we're working extremely hard. In both circumstances we're making sacrifices right? We're working late hours. Maybe we're, you know, on business trips or or missing out on some family stuff. Um we might be tired, right? Um but only in the case of passion does that sacrifice feel worth it, right? Um and it's because we believe in the thing that we're doing. We believe in the higher cause that's bringing us to work. So I I don't think effort is what distinguishes stress and passion. It's whether that whether that effort feels worth it. And what you feel is passion. And and again this is a group of of travel industry and we went through a global pandemic. It was a difficult time for for the the whole world but but I would say you know how

[00:08:04]
do you stay an optimist working for a travel company during a global pandemic? >> Well I mean I think the beginning of it was was awful because there was the unknown. Um, but I think what happened is what we're seeing, which is I think there was an overreiance and no no disrespect intended to my my lovely hosts, but there was an overindexing on technology, technology, technology to solve all problems and I would even say actively trying to minimize >> people and I think COVID may have been one of the accidental best things that ever happened to the travel industry because it really showed us the importance of people. the the the you know people talked about the the death of the travel agent. It didn't happen. The travel adviser has come back stronger than ever. Um and you know we we see the importance of people and we kind of know this you know if you if you look at sort of you know if you have status like I have status on my preferred airline and one >> you can say that too.

[00:09:04]
>> I I I'm a Delta guy. Hey uh Delta, >> it's it's really good. >> Your status just went up. >> I will I will check my account later. I'm a little bit behind this year. I'm not going to lie. Um in my MQM. Uh but uh but we see it, right? Like the best thing about having status in a hotel, in an airline, in any of these things is not the upgrades, not the this. It's the phone number. It's that when I call, I get a person where somebody else who doesn't have status gets a machine. And and and we are now living in a world where interacting with a human being has become a luxury. But that's how special we know it is that it's become a luxury which is a whole different conversation

[00:10:04]
whether that's a good thing or a bad thing. But we know how special human interaction is because by the way it's not the problems that they're solving. It's that I get to talk to a person who has been trained well and cares about me. And I'll give you an example of what good customer service is and what what what what uh and we'll you let's stick with an airline just for fun. So, uh, it's not about I think most customers, if we're really cynical, customers talk about they have great service or bad service if they got what they want or didn't get what they want, right? But that's not true. I'll give you an example. Let's say I'm on a business trip and my work is done early and I want to go home to my family. I check the website. I see that there are there's flights available on the earlier flights. Let's call it a day early. Um, and so I call the airline and I say, "Hey, I'm done early. I'd really love to get home to my family. I see that you've got availability in the earlier flight. Can I get on that flight?" And the agent says, "I'm sorry. You have the wrong class of ticket. I can't change your I can't change your flight. I'm happy to pay a fee. I'm happy to pay whatever it

[00:11:05]
is, please. Can I get on that flight? I'm sorry, sir. I told you you have the wrong class of uh you have the wrong class. I can't I can't book you. You have the wrong status flight. There's nothing I can do. The computer won't let me do it." Okay. I now hate that airline. Right. Okay. Let's replay that. Okay. Same scenario. Hi, I'm done early. Love to go home. I see you have availability. Can I get on that flight? Sir, I want to get you home to your family. Here's the problem. Your your your ticket is the wrong class. And so the computer won't let me. But let me let me see what I can do. I really want to get you home to your family. Click click click click click click click. That didn't work. Click click click click. That didn't work. Sir, let me talk to my supervisor. I'm determined to get you home to your family. Go away. Come back. Sir, I talked to my supervisor. We've tried like six different things. There's nothing I can do. I am so so sorry. I just cannot get you on that earlier flight. Don't worry. Thank you for trying. I now love that airline even though I didn't get what I want. And that's what it feels like when someone cares. It doesn't mean we always get what we want, but what we get is somebody who understands and cares about

[00:12:06]
what we're trying to accomplish. That's considered good service. >> I thought you were going to Yeah. So you were you were here in 2017. Uh the infinite game came out in 2019 uh just before the pandemic and and I read it before and after. Um I read it uh after >> Thank you. >> Yeah. You're welcome. >> One copy or two. >> I highly recommend >> one and then I passed to my friends and they >> Excellent. Right answer. >> Just trying to spread the word. That's what really matters. >> It's what matters. >> Okay. Well, um I'm just curious like you know some of these shifts that we've seen in hospitality and and in the world more more broadly. Has that changed your thinking at all about finite versus infinite games? >> You it the great thing about the pandemic, it actually reinforced everything I wrote about because I'm open-minded. I I put forward theories, you know, and so those theories can get

[00:13:06]
tested and need to be updated. and and rereading the infinite game post pandemic, it it actually highlighted actually that a lot of those things all of those things 100% apply. Um it is it worth me describing what the infinite game is? >> Probably. >> Okay, I will. Um okay, so in the mid 1980s, a philosopher and theologian by the name of Dr. James Carse defined these two types of games, finite games and infinite games. A finite game is defined as known players, fixed rules, and agreed upon objective. Football, baseball, right? If there's winners, necessarily there have to be losers or a loser. But more important, there's always a beginning, a middle, and an end. In infinite games, um there are known and unknown players, which means you don't necessarily know who all the other players are. And the bar and any new player can join at any time. The rules are changeable which means anyone can join the game whenever they want and the objective is to stay in the game to

[00:14:06]
perpetuate the game. We are players in infinite games every day of our lives whether we know it or not. Um no one will ever win career. No one will ever be declared the uh the winner of education or learning. Nobody wins healthcare. Um um and no one will ever be declared the winner of business. Like when Circuit City went bankrupt, Best Buy didn't win anything, right? Um, but when we listen to the language of so many of our leaders, it becomes abundantly clear that they don't know the game they're playing in. They're obsessed with being number one or being the best or beating their competition based on what? Based on what agreed upon metrics, objectives, and time frames. And this is a problem because when we play with a finite mindset in the infinite game, when we play to win in a game that has no finish line, the outcomes are predictable and consistent. The decline of trust, the decline of cooperation, and the decline of innovation. We have to play for the game that win. Are there finite games in the infinite game? Of course, there's always

[00:15:06]
finite games. There's a beginning, middle, and end. It's like, let's go. Let's stick with airlines. Like that gate agent has a finite game. Every time a plane needs to to go, there's a beginning, middle, and end. Repeat. But we want them to be aware of the infinite game. In other words, we want the company to stay in business. So, I'm going to treat people nicely as they're getting off and on the plane so that they'll come back again, right? Because I want to perpetuate that we stay in the game. So, you're always aware. And I think that the the people who best understand the the companies that best understand the infinite game recognize that it's not just a series of transactions. It's not just a series of deals. It's about fostering a relationship. It's about building trust not only with your employees but also your customers. And it's that obsession that allows you to manage through the the bad times. You can't really judge the quality of a company in good times, right? Cuz we can all do well simultaneously. It's when the when the when the things go sour, do the people at the company rally and say, "We're going to do this together." Do the customers come together? One of the greatest stories of this was post

[00:16:07]
September 11th where the airline industry was decimated and Southwest Airlines customers were sending checks sometimes up to $1,000 to Southwest Airlines just rooting for them. I mean, imagine your customers sending you random checks just because they're rooting for you. right now. Clearly that amount of money meant nothing. But the sentiment that somebody wants a company to stay in business so badly is, I think, a testament to how they treated their customers every single day up until that day. Do you think trust and and like I said, we're all partners here. Trust is obviously a critical part of partnership. Do you think it's gotten harder in this Zoom era when we're not face to face as much? >> I mean, the simple answer is yes. Um, you know, I actually think there's a hierarchy to the media that helps us build trust. In person, obviously the best one, be able to look each other in the eye. You can feel it. >> And we had just started with YouTube, me watching you on YouTube. And now look at us.

[00:17:07]
>> And now look at us. Um, uh, but like if I look into the audience and I make eye contact with somebody, I mean, you can feel it even though we're in a dark room and I'm just looking. I mean, you can feel it. You you can't get that anywhere else except in real life. I think the next level down is the phone. I actually don't think it's Zoom. I think it's phone. >> Does everyone agree with Simon on this? Zoom or phone? Let's hear for phone >> and and Zoom video >> for Teams. >> About 50/50. Yeah, 50/50. Um >> I'm with you. It's a generational thing. >> No, no, no, no. I don't think it's a generational thing. I think it's a biological thing. Um um I mean you know Zoom it's nice to look at the person. Um but you know occasionally you have that experience where um they're looking at their screen but their camera's over here. So what you see is the side of their head or and let's be honest we spend a lot of times looking at ourselves. >> Self view off >> you know and I don't want self view off.

[00:18:08]
I want to look at me. >> I don't want it off. >> Right. Um and we figure out tricks that if you make Here's a trick for you by the way. If you make your if you make the zoom screen really small and you put yourself underneath the camera, you can look at yourself, but they'll think that they're look you're looking at them. Um, wow. >> And and so, and this is the point, but this is the point, which is it's it's artificial. And when somebody is clearly distracted, they're on their phone, they're you can see them checking their email, you know, it's it's like there's this weird awkwardness where we sort of continue as if nothing's happening. And it's weird to say, "Are you listening to me?" But on the phone, when you hear someone's distracted, you can go, "You there?" And they go, "Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry." Like, we can actually hold the space a lot tighter. Um, and if you're somebody like me, I like to pace. It's hard to pace on Zoom. Keep pulling the plug out of the computer. >> Um, as these are our partners, it means that some of them are also competitors. >> Yes. >> And um, you talk in one of your books about worthy rivals.

[00:19:08]
Um, >> and love that concept. Can you tell maybe explain the the idea of >> so in a finite game baseball the other players are competitors the goal is actually to beat them that your score is higher and at the end of the game you will be declared winner right in business there's not really such thing and so to view each other's competitors is kind of silly because two companies can sell the same thing for about the same price about the same quality and both be wildly successful simultaneously um instead of thinking of each other as competitors because then all you do is focus on reacting to what they do and you're choosing your own metrics by the way as to what constitutes winning and losing. Um uh instead you want to find the players who are as good or better than you on one or many things and have respect for them because their strengths reveal to you your weaknesses >> but not but not copy them not try to be them. I mean you can copy them if they if they have got a good idea but you

[00:20:09]
know but the point is you're not trying to beat them you're trying to outdo yourself. I'll give you a real life example that happened to me. So I spoke at an education summit for Microsoft and by sheer weird coincidence a few months later I spoke at an education summit for Apple. At the Microsoft summit most of the executives this is the Steve Balmer days most of the executives spent most of their presentations talking about how to beat Apple. That's actually the language they used. Whereas uh the Apple Summit 100% of the executives spent 100% of their presentations talking about how to help teachers teach and how to help students learn. One was obsessed with their mission. The other was obsessed with trying to beat their competition. Guess who was having issues with competition uh with cooperation, trust, and innovation, right? So uh at after my talk at Microsoft, they gave me a gift. They gave me the new Zoom when it was a thing. Some people remember what that was. This is Microsoft's response to the iPod MP3 player and Balmer's intention was to beat Apple and make the product better. And by the way, they did a great

[00:21:09]
job. >> Good product. >> They gave me the newest Zoom at the time and it was great. It was actually pretty decent. So, um, I was finished with my talk at Apple and I was sharing a taxi with a senior executive and I have this character flaw where I have to stir the pot like you telling me not to me. You're like, hit don't hit the button. I was like, so I'm sitting in the back of this taxi just like I got to do it. And I turn to him and I say, "You know, Microsoft gave me their new Zoom. It is so much better than my iPod." [Laughter] And he looked at me, he said, "I have no doubt." And the conversation was over. Because companies playing with an infinite mindset understand that there's no such thing as a winner or a loser. There's no such thing as winning or losing. There's no such thing as beating your competition. You're either ahead or behind. And the goal is not to compete against your competitor. The goal is to compete against yourself. How do I outdo ourselves? How do we make our culture better this year than it was last year? How do we make our leaders better this year than they were last year? How do we make our marketing better this year than

[00:22:09]
it was last year? Learn from your worthy rivals, those who are better than you uh in in the business. Have their strengths reveal to you where you have to improve. It's worth noting that a year or two after this conversation, Apple introduced the iPod, which rendered both the I introduced the iPhone, which rendered both the iPod and the Zoom obsolete because they weren't competing against to make a better iPod. They were competing against themselves, >> which I love. I love it's a great story. And I remember when when I had an iPod, I had a great flip phone. I remember think why would I possibly want to put my music on my phone >> or your camera or your encyclopedia or your >> they they were thinking beyond incremental >> they were way ahead of us and and and this is the value of stop thinking of the other players in your game as competition and think of the best ones as your worthy rivals and they will make you better at the game. >> So we have a new CEO as of yesterday Arian she's out there somewhere. Um

[00:23:10]
and uh for Arian and for for anyone in this room um you you have to think about big bold bets um as as a leader of a company now >> and um you talk a lot about that in your books. How do you encourage a culture? What are some of the principles that Arian should be thinking about about to encourage a culture within the company of taking risks and making big bets? So it's funny when I listen to a lot of corporate leaders and they talk about we incentivize performance impossible biologically impossible you can't incentivize an outcome you can only incentivize a behavior that's all you can do and so you want to incentivize the behavior of trying new things right so I'll give you a personal example um long ago uh uh when I was I was a junior guy at a big ad agency and it was customary for the senior folks to do the new business pitches But it was holiday season and so all these senior executives went off on vacation and the

[00:24:10]
junior idiots were left back at the office and so uh so we had a big pitch in January and so they told us to prepare the war room which basically means hang the research on the walls and that took an hour but we had a week to kill. So we decided me and this other junior person we decided to do the pitch ourselves. We combed through the research we wrote a strategy. We developed a strategy. We wrote the pitch deck. We did all the work and they came back from vacation and we presented our work to them and they actually used our pitch, our deck in the new in the new business pitch and they lost the business. They did not win the pitch and my boss gave me a huge promotion. They actually moved me up two levels because he wasn't incentivizing my outcome. He was in incentivizing my initiative. And by giving me a huge reward for showing initiative, guess what? He got more of initiative. If he had some come to me and said look I'm really grateful but you know we didn't win so I can't give you anything then the next time I would have done nothing or I would have just taken the safe road and so we have to

[00:25:10]
get we have to incentivize and reward and recognize the behavior that we want and then we will get the behavior that we want and we create a safe space for people to try new things >> and and you talk a lot on your podcast in fact you had a um the designer uh the ad agency that did a lot of the Apple early Apple >> Oh yeah yeah cloud >> Lee Cloud and Um, it was fantastic. And you talk a lot about creativity on your on your podcast. How do you connect creativity and risktaking and and optimism? I mean, it was part of your a bit of optimism podcast. >> I think it all goes together, right? I think when you are driven, if if there's if if the company comes and tells you to hit some financial number by the end of the year, like how does that drive creativity? That drives small thinking. But if you have some sort of vision or mission, some just cause that's really, dare I say, delightful, like especially in your line of business, I mean, your the outcome is really delightful. It's amazing. It's experiences. It's stuff

[00:26:11]
that reinforces relationship and memories and it's arguably more important than money to a lot of people. Um, uh, you know, what an amazing thing to give people. And so if you if you set your sights on we want to create the most memorable experiences a family can have for the rest of their lives go. Now that's what people are thinking against. That's what that it's incredibly optimistic. It also gives them the drive and the grit to not quit just because it gets difficult because that's so worth it. It's really important. Here's a little insight though on how you keep that thing alive which is the more you can actually interact with the people who are the beneficiaries of your work the more valuable. So um the case study on this one was it was a university who was uh uh they had volunteers raising money for a scholarship right dialing for dollars and uh you know donations were flat and so they hired a consultancy to come and rewrite the script for them and in these difficult times it's more like you know you get

[00:27:12]
the idea and it was a small bump but a group of social scientists did an experiment where they brought in one of the recipients of the scholarship to talk to the volunteers. You ready for this? For 5 minutes and all of a sudden performance skyrocketed because they weren't doing it for some amorphous kid who needs a scholarship. They weren't reading a script. They were doing it for that kid they met. It became deeply personal. They didn't need a script. um loan officers in in in banks when they meet the small business owners that they've given the loans to. Now they have this verve that this this new uh this energy and so if you can and by the way the data shows that even if you read a letter from somebody it won't has it won't has power as powerful an effect but it still has a powerful effect. If you can put a name and a face on the experience, if you can bring in people who were benefited from your from your efforts, you'll find that you'll have an

[00:28:12]
energy for innovation and and grit more than anything. So, creativity and risk-taking and optimism, they're all they all go together. They all go together. I heard I heard a clap and and I love I love >> that's what you call social clapping. One person clapped. one person. Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you. >> But I'm glad that you called out the the opportunity that this group has and the just cause of travel. It's why I've stayed in the industry for a long time. What do you what do you think that we're doing really well right now that we that and and >> how how should we go forward with confidence in a just cause whether we're, you know, regardless of where we are in in the travel industry? I >> I so I'll give so give credit where credit is due, right? I think overall the travel industry is doing a really good job of listening. I think you know in the past less so less so is about efficiencies and numbers and how you can improve your margins whatever it is you're doing and which has its place but should that be the first thing you know and I think you know I I definitely feel

[00:29:14]
that companies are making adjustments at every level of the experience from the travel experience to the hotel experience to the website experience to all of it that there that you seem to be paying a lot of attention to what we want and to what makes what makes our experience the the kind of experience that we want and doing your best to give it to us. And I think that's that's been I think that's had a huge benefit. I mean, people I think people are enjoying travel more. You know, it used to be that like travel was the thing that you did to get to the destination and now travel is becoming part of part of the experience overall. So, I think overall it's like check-in experiences are better. Checkout experiences are better. Like, you know, I think um I think airlines are airlines are working at it. Um um >> it's a tough business. Let's be honest. It was a tough >> um but but I think overall the experiences the experiences are a lot better even the even the customer experience you know when you're talking to a gate agent >> you know >> and and ultimately travel is a force for good and we can >> I think so >> we can do a lot with that

[00:30:14]
>> I think people who travel more um are more curious I think people who travel more are more open-minded I think people who travel more are more tolerant of people who aren't like them who don't look like them who don't sound like them who have different views than them and when I say travel I'm not even talking international I'm talking about domestic you know just meeting people and seeing the world and interacting with people I think makes dare I say it but I think you may hold the recipe for world peace. Um uh I I and and by the way I'm being deadly serious. The less we travel, the more we stay focused on our phones and our Tik Toks and our Instagrams, the more judgmental we become, the more angry we become. The more we tune in only to news that agrees with us and we become polarized and and and sometimes very angry at people for no discernable reason. The more we travel, the more we see the world, the more we interact with people who aren't like us, they don't look like us, they don't sound like us, they don't feel like us, they don't think like us, the more tolerant, creative, and patient we become. And honestly, um, if we can start to view each other as human beings more, I

[00:31:15]
genuinely genuinely believe that the more people that you can get to travel, we are more likely to achieve world peace. That is 100% true. Ladies and gentlemen, Simon Synette.