
[00:00:00]
I think people tend to good right I'll give you a silly example so there's an app that you can download called Apple store right not the app store but Apple store okay and you can go into any Apple store retail retail outlet you can pull out your phone you can't do with a computer or a phone but you can do with a pair of $300 headphones you can do it with cables plugs whatever you need you can scan the item on your phone and you can walk out right no bag no nothing just walk And I when it first came out after a few months I pulled one of the managers aside. I'm like I'm dying to know what's happened to your shoplifting numbers. And he's like they're exactly the same. I'm like he says people who steal steal and people who don't steal don't steal and most people don't steal. People are tend to good right? Most people are good people. Sometimes we struggle to communicate. Sometimes we're bad under pressure. But people tend to good. And so if you if we accept

[00:01:00]
that people tend to good, that means the world tends to good, right? And incentive structures that we work in and the environment we work in can hijack can hijack us and make us operate at our worst selves. Y but people want to feel like they belong. People want to be seen. People want to feel like they matter. People want to feel like their work matters. It's pretty consistent around the world. We want to feel safe wherever we are. We want our kids to feel safe wherever they are. It's pretty much it. I want to make a living and I want my kids to get education. That's pretty much it around the whole world. And so I I I I my optimism is not naive. Like we can be in darkness. I can be like this is horrible and I am stressed and I don't know where we're going and I am uncertain and this is the worst time we've ever been in. But I know one thing. I know that if we take care of each other and we look after each other, I know we will get through this and come through this better than where we are now. We will come out of this even stronger than we went in. And that's what optimism is for me. It's the undying belief that the future is bright. And I believe that the future is bright because I think people are

[00:02:00]
fundamentally good.