
[00:00:06]
This year has been a wonderful year for a bit of optimism. It's been a sheer joy for me to sit down and record this [music] podcast. And I know full well that it wouldn't be as great as it is if it wasn't for you, the listener. So, I want to give you a big heartfelt thank you for making a bit of optimism what it is. Whether you listen to one episode or every episode that you have been out there sharing the ideas, embracing the ideas, if you've sent a YouTube link to a friend or shared a clip on social, you've played a part in helping spread the message of optimism. Thank you. And like so many of you, we at a bit of optimism are also going to take a break for the holidays. We will be back in the new year with new episodes starting January 27th with new and wonderful guests that you won't want to miss. Until then, if you'd like something to listen to, whether you're staying at home or traveling, there's a few of my favorite episodes that I encourage you to go back and listen to if you missed

[00:01:07]
them the first time or maybe even listen to them again if you did hear them. One of my absolute favorite ones is with my dear friend and CEO of Barry Weey Miller, Bob Chapman. We traveled to one of the factories in Phillips, Wisconsin, where I got to talk to Bob and meet some of his people. Visiting his factory is a lesson to all of us about what work could be like. In fact, what work should be like. If you are looking for a little creative inspiration, check out my conversation with Grammy Award winner Jacob Collier. He has lots of fun ideas and to see his mind buzz is nothing [music] short of creatively inspiring. And then of course one of my favorite people to talk to, Trevor Noah. He and I sit down and have a hilarious and very cerebral conversation that will stretch your mind, challenge your assumptions, and make your head hurt in a good [music] way. I promise you. >> They think we're just like walking around from room to room like

[00:02:07]
[laughter] but in reality it's it's depression. that's what they think. >> Again, thank you to all of you who have helped support a bit of optimism, and I look forward to hitting the ground running in 2026 with new ideas, new opportunities to learn, and more conversations that I know you're going to love. Until then, wishing you all very happy holidays, a happy new year. Take care of yourself, take care of each other.