
[00:00:03]
Please welcome to the stage, Alex Russian. Hello. Hello Googlers. Good to see you. My name is Alex Russian. I'm a cloud engineering manager uh based here in the Seattle area and I'm excited to be here today to help moderate today's Gear Up event brought to you by the Google School in partnership with Talks at Google. Um, I'm excited to introduce today's speaker, Simon Sneck. Simon may be best known for populariz popularizing the concept of why described in his first TED talk in 2009 and his interview on millennials on in the workplace, which broke the internet in 2016 and led to Simon being YouTube's fifth most searched term in the year 2017. Described as a visionary thinker with a rare intellect, Simon has devoted his professional life to help advance a vision of the world does not yet exist. A world in which the vast majority of people wake up every single morning. Inspired and feeling safe wherever they

[00:01:03]
are to end the day fulfilled by the work that they do. Apologize. I'm a little nervous. I'm not going to lie. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Simon is an unshakable optimist who believes in the bright future and our ability to build it together. So Google, please help me welcome Simon Sak. Thank you for being here, Simon. Well, Simon, we are so glad to have you here. Thank you for spending time with us today. Oh, thanks for having me. Absolutely. To get us kicked off, I'd like to ask you about your first TED talk in 2009. Start with why. Uh that was 15 years ago. Start with why. How great leaders can inspire action. Can you walk us a little bit about what that was like? What was that journey getting to that TED talk to deliver that message? So people ask me like how long did it take you to like to write the talk or how long did it take me to write the book? And my answer is every day of my

[00:02:03]
life up until that day. Um you know my work is semi-autobiographical. Um, and the journey of the why is entirely based in my own personal journey of completely losing my passion for my own work. I had a good job and made an okay living. I did, you know, had great clients, but I fell out of love with my own work. Um, and uh u I kept it to myself mainly because I was embarrassed. Um, and if you've ever been in a dark place and if you don't tell anybody about it, turns out it gets darker. Um, and that's exactly what happened to me way back when. And um it wasn't until a very very dear friend of mine came to me and said something's wrong and I came clean and admitted what was I was going through and it was a huge weight off my shoulders. And so um the journey I went on was to try and reclaim my passion and that's when I discovered there was a confluence of events but the the short version is I discovered that I knew what I did and I knew how I did it but I didn't know why. And it's based on the biology of human decision-making. So I

[00:03:03]
had to know why I do what I do. And making money is not a getting promoted is not a a why. Those are results. Um and so I went on this this journey to find my why, but more important I learned how to help other people find theirs. And I helped my friends find their wise and they found renewed love for their own work. They some of them started their own businesses. Um then they would invite me to share it with their friends and I would help people find their why for 100 bucks on the side. And um and then word just sort of kind of spread. Everything was organic until I got an invitation to to do the TEDex talk up here in Pugido. Yeah, absolutely. That's awesome. Thank you for sharing that with me. Um, in your work, you emphasize the importance of knowing one's why, but and you just mentioned that you'd gone through this yourself. How can individuals discover or in most cases rediscover their own purpose, especially during periods of change or uncertainty? Yeah. So, one of the uh we only have one. We are the products of our upbringing. You and I are uh who we are is based on how we were raised,

[00:04:04]
experiences we had as kids, our parents, our teachers, right? That's made us. Those things made us who we are. Um and there's no changing who you are. Um and the rest of our lives offer us opportunities to make decisions that are either consistent with who we truly are or not. We call it authenticity. We know what it feels like when we make those decisions. We have inspiration. We have we have passion. We have flow. We also know what it feels like to be out of balance. You know, I've done this a hundred times. Why am I not enjoying it anymore? You know, um uh and so one way you can there's many ways to do it. You know, I've wrote a book called Find Your Y. We offer tools on our website, but I'll tell you one one fun way to do it. It's called a friends exercise, and anyone can do this. Find a friend uh you love and who loves you. Do not do this with a spouse. Do not do do not do this with a sibling. Do not do this with a parent. Those relationships are too close. Do it with a best friend. Somebody who you could call at 3:00 in the morning. You know they take your call. Or they call you at 3:00 in the morning. You would definitely take their

[00:05:04]
call. And ask them the simple question. Why are we friends? And they're going to look at you like you're insane. Because the part of the brain that controls feelings like love and loyalty doesn't control language. We struggle to put our feelings into language. I mean, this is it's an age-old human problem. Um, and they're gonna look at you and like you're insane. And then you actually stop asking the question why. and you say, "Come on, what specifically is it about me that I know you'd be there for me no matter what?" And they're going to hem and hop. They're going to like, "I don't know. Uh, I can count on you. You're always there for me." And you have to play devil's advocate. Good. That's the definition of a friend. What specifically is it about me that I know you'd be there for me no matter what? And you're going to go through a few rounds of this. They're going to hate you. Don't help them. Don't let anybody else help them. And eventually, they'll give up. And eventually they'll start describing themselves. And this is what my friend said to me. My friend said, "Look, Simon, I don't know. All I know is I can sit in a room with you. I don't even have to talk to you and I feel inspired." And I got goosebumps. In

[00:06:04]
fact, I'm getting them right now. Because what they do is they articulate the value you have in their lives, which is your why. And it's the thing you give to the world. That's why you had the emotional response because it tapped something deep inside you. And that's when you know you're you're there, which is you'll either get goosebumps or you'll well up with tears or whatever it is. You'll have an emotional response to something they describe in themselves. And I if you do this with multiple friends, which I did, they'll say very similar if not the exact same thing because the thing you give to the world, your why, is the value that people take from you. Absolutely. You know, in in in start with why, you often mention that you don't do business with people who can just give you something or or serve a particular need. You do business who believe in what you believe in. And I feel like you're describing the same thing with friendships and interpersonal relationships. If you've got when they work Yeah. Yeah. or or why they don't work sometimes, right? On paper, this should make sense, but it it just doesn't feel right as you often would say, right? Exactly right. Absolutely. Um I'm going to move on real quick. In what ways has your own why evolved over the last couple of years or been tested in period of times of change in your

[00:07:04]
life or career? Yeah. So, evolution not a thing. It's a permanent fixture. I might tweak the words. Yeah. But the evolution is how I choose to bring it to life, but itself is is a is a is a foundation. That's that's why people are reliable, right? Cuz when your why is fixed, it's you will always be who I know you will be. And if you make decisions inconsistent with your why, then people will say to like, I don't know who you are anymore. So So the why hasn't evolved at all. How I've chosen to bring it to life, that's where the fun is. That's I can change what I do, but I can't change who I am. I can't change why I do what I do. So it's I mean it's it's taken many twists and turns um uh uh you know in all the ways I bring it to life whether it's speaking or writing books um uh doing the online thing you know when social media showed up like none of those things scared me none of those things AI none of that stuff feels threatening to me it's like I'm I'm always I'm always looking to to thread a needle and I think this is one of the big mistakes people make when they manage a career right which is

[00:08:04]
people plan roots but they don't have a sense of destination right? Their sense of destination is abstract to be senior one day to make millions of dollars one day whatever you know to run something like sure they plan routs like I'm going to do you know work at this company for this many years or I'm going to you and and it's the same it's kind of the equivalent of like leaving your house and you see your neighbor packing up their car and you say where are you going and they say vacation you go oh cool where you going they said vacation they're like no no no I know but where are you going. They said, "I told you vacation." Well, how are you going to get there? And they say, "Well, I'm going to take 95. I'm going to drive 150 miles a day." So, they tell you the route. Yeah. But they don't know where they're going. And that's how a lot of us manage our careers. We plan routes and then we create back plans for whatever those short-term goals are. But the problem is, what if there's road works? What if there's some sort of closure? What do you do? You freak out usually and now your metrics are destroyed and you're panicking, right? I'm the complete

[00:09:04]
opposite. I have no idea what route I'm going to take. But I know that if I'm starting in New York and I want to get to California, that's it. That's all I know. Except my California is way abstract. Like you you uh well, it's not that abstract. It's just unrealizable. It's just idealistic. It's not abstract at all. Actually, like you said it, to create a world in which the vast majority of people wake up every single morning inspired, feel safe wherever they are, and end the day fulfilled by the work that they do. That's my California, right? And the the thing is I'll start on 95 and I'll try and drive 150 mi a day. That sounds great. But then if there's road works, I'll be like, "Oh, I'll go this way." And this is a slow road. So people think that I'm off, but they they can't see my twisty road, but it's very very focused. Yeah. And if somebody comes to me and says, "I'll I have a plane." I'm like, "Great, but which direction are you going?" Right? And I think that's one of the problems, which is we jump at jobs that offer us more money, but we don't know if actually fulfills our values and helps us advance our cause. And so then we end up somewhere where we're highly paid and unhappy, and then it's not worth it. Um so I think I think having a clear

[00:10:05]
sense of very very um distant and idealistic destination and then being agnostic as to the route that we take I think at least for my my experience is a happier is a happier way to advance. Yeah absolutely that makes a lot of sense. You know you and I are speaking a little bit earlier today um for Google and those of us who work in the technology industry the last couple of years have been tumultuous. There's been lightning fast in improvements in technology and changes in I won't say the values but the the methods by which a lot of us are being told to achieve our goals and do our jobs. And I think you bring up a good point that for each of us individually it shouldn't matter which route we're on or if we have to divert our path as long as we know where we're trying to get to as an end goal. And I feel like I know for myself that's something that I've had to recalibrate. Um, and I think a lot of us have been going through something very similar in terms of are we still doing the work that we enjoy and is it moving us closer to what we want to achieve even if it's not the way we wanted to achieve it. I mean, you're touching on two things there. You know, it's still stressful. You know, what I'm talking about is not

[00:11:06]
the absence of stress. It's just clarity as you go through that stress. You know, and sometimes that stress is a little it feels a little more passionate, you know. Um but I think what's very important and I think often forgotten in these difficult and uncertain because uncertainty is the worst part like human beings can deal with bad news. We can deal with tragedy. We can deal with you know something sudden and bad but it's these it's the it's the slow drip of uncertainty that is actually much more insidious. Yes. Um uh uh but in any time of high stress or uncertainty, the most important thing we have to do is double down on relationships, double down on friendships. And this is the thing we forget, which as human beings, you know, are we're not designed to survive in nature by ourselves. We're not very strong and we're not very smart by ourselves. But in groups, we're remarkable. There's nothing that has ever achieved of any kind of significance in this world by one person. It was always teams of people every single time. And so I think that

[00:12:07]
um to know how to to develop the skill set of friendship is perhaps the single best thing we can do. I I'll I'll give you a couple of examples. So if you think about it um uh sort of we have an entire industry to help us be better leaders. We have an entire industry to help us be better parents. An entire industry to teach us how to eat better, how to exercise better, how to sleep better. And yet there's precious little on how to be a good friend, right? And if you look at the rising rates of anxiety and depression and sometimes suicide, even the obsession with longevity, friendship fixes all those things. Friendship is the ultimate biohack, right? And if you if you ask most people, are you a good friend? Most people say yes. But if you peel the onion just a little bit, you know, would you cancel on a friend for a meeting? Would you cancel a meeting for a friend? Oh, but my friends would understand. Turns out we're actually pretty crap friends. And if you if you if you look at people's relationships like think about the marriages or personal into romantic relationships that that you look to be like that's what I want. That's the kind of relationship I want.

[00:13:07]
If you ask all those people what's your secret? They all say the same thing which is it's hard work and we do the work. Now how many people would describe their close friendships as hard work but we do the work. We take it for granted. We they happen by default. Like making friends is the easy part. Staying friends is hard. And sometimes we stay in friendship simply because time is the bond, right? I've been friends for 15 years. Yeah, but I get nothing from this. How can you end a friendship after 15 years? A friend of mine did this recently where her friendship was faltering with someone. You know what she did? Genius. She demanded that she and her friend get therapy together. Wow. Just like a relationship. Yeah. And I thought that was magical. I thought it was absolutely brilliant. Um uh and very few of us actually have the skills of how to be a friend. Um um we're not very good at listening. When somebody's going through a difficult time, we want to fix them. We want to offer them advice. We're not very good at just sitting in mud with them and going, "Yeah, this sucks." And waiting for them to say, "I think I'm ready to get out now." And making them feel not alone. And that's

[00:14:08]
the core of friendship. And if we develop the skill set of being a friend to someone, it's actually helping them be a friend to us as well. Um a friend of mine was going through something hard which I didn't know about. I went to her house for dinner and we just catching up. I'm like, "What have you been up to?" And she said, "Well, last week it was really rough and I was like,"Well, why didn't you call me? Like, I'm one of your best friends. Like, why didn't you call me?" She says, "I did." I'm like, "You didn't." She goes, "I did. I texted you multiple times." I'm like, "No, you didn't." And I like pull up my phone to prove to her that she did. And the texts say, "What up? What are you doing? Want to come over?" I'm like, "You mean these texts? How am I to be able to distinguish those texts from a for as a cry to help as opposed to every other text you've ever sent me? And that's uh uh she had read an article just previously that when somebody is struggling all they need is 8 minutes of attention from someone. Wow. to feel not

[00:15:08]
alone doesn't mean you're going to you know and so we beca we came up with a code which is the text is now do you have eight minutes which that means I really need you and anyone can leave a meeting for 8 minutes to go just let somebody know that they're not alone um and I think this is when you're going through periods of stress the opportunity to have somebody that you can simply go home to and say I don't know what's going on and I'm stressed out and there's so much uncertainty and I don't know how to deal with it and I'm so good at making decisions and I don't know what decision to make and just have somebody who knows how to sit there and hear you and give you space. I'm telling you that's 90% of it. Yeah, that's amazing. You did mention earlier that it's easy to make friends. So, I'm going to have to tell you about the Seattle freeze after this event. Um I think friends happen. Friends happen. At least that's how we treat it. Yeah. You know, absolutely. Um let me pivot a little bit. Everybody has a friend, you know,

[00:16:08]
even even an imaginary one. Uh let's talk a little bit about the infinite game mindset. Um what is this perspective between finite and infinite games and how does that change the way you should move through the world and how you make decisions? So this has profoundly changed my view of the world. It profoundly changed my whole approach to the world. In the mid1 1980s, a philosopher and theologian by the name of James Karse uh articulated these two types of games, finite games and infinite games. A finite game is defined as known players, fixed rules, and agreed upon objective. Football, baseball, a new business pitch, right? Um, uh, if there is a winner necessarily, there has to be a loser or losers. But more important, there's always a beginning, a middle, and an end. Always. Then you have infinite games. Infinite games are defined as known and unknown players, which means you don't necessarily know who all the players are, and new players can join at any time. Yeah. The rules are changeable, which means every player can play however they want. And the objective is to perpetuate the game, to

[00:17:08]
stay in the game as long as possible. We are players in infinite games every day of our lives, whether we know it or not. No one will ever win career. No one will ever be declared the the the the winner of of of education or health or marriage. Nobody wins marriage, right? You have if you think if you're if you're trying to be number one in your marriage, it's not going to work. uh uh there's no such thing as the winner of business. Right. Right. Um uh but if you listen to the language of so many leaders, it becomes very clear that they actually don't know the game they're playing in. They talk about being number one, being the best, or beating their competition based on what? Based on what agreed upon metrics, objectives, and time frames. You can choose those whatever you want. Um, and when you play with a finite mindset in an infinite game, when you play to win in a game that has no finish line, there are very predictable outcomes. Decline of trust, decline of cooperation, decline of innovation. I'll give you a real life

[00:18:08]
experience that I had that really captures it. So, I spoke at an education summit for Microsoft and by sheer coincidence, a few months later, I spoke at an education summit for Apple. At the at the Microsoft summit, every executive spent like 80% of the executives spent about 80% of their PowerPoints talking about how to how they were going to beat Apple. At the Apple Summit, 100% of the executives spent 100% of their presentations talking about how they're going to help teachers teach and how they're going to help students learn. One was obsessed with their cause. One was obsessed with beating their competition. Guess who is having morale problems? Um, at the end of my Microsoft talk, they gave me a gift. They gave me the new Zoom when it was a thing. Uh, the Zoom was uh Microsoft's response to the iPod. And Balmer had been very public that he was going to make the best iPod and beat Apple and blah blah blah. And I got to tell you, this little piece of technology was pretty good. At the end of my Apple talk, I shared a taxi with a senior Apple

[00:19:10]
executive. And uh, I couldn't help myself. It's a personality flow. I had to stir the pot. And so I turned to him. I go, "You know, Microsoft gave me their new Zoom. It is so much better than my iPod touch." And he looks at me, goes, "I have no doubt." And the conversation was over. That was it. Because when you're playing with an infinite mindset, you're not actually competing against anybody else. You're competing against yourself. That's the only true competition. And where Microsoft was trying to beat Apple, Apple was simply trying to not do itself. Um, and you recognize when you play with an infinite mindset that sometimes you're head and sometimes you're fine. That's just how the game goes. And it's worth noting that two years later, a year later, Apple introduced the iPod uh the iPhone that rendered the Zoom and the iPod obsolete. And that's what happens when you play with an infinite mindset. You outdo yourself and you destroy and change marketplaces. And I think too many

[00:20:10]
organizations these days for various reasons which we can go into if you want. Uh but too many organizations and too many leaders uh are playing with a finite mindset and infinite game. Like when Circuit City went bankrupt, Best Buy didn't win anything. That's a really good point. Absolutely. Now you've written about the importance of optimism. What's the difference between blind and informed optimism and why is the latter essential for effective leadership? Um well I think the the I don't think any optimism is blind. Uh I think I think I think there's blind positivity for sure. I mean not to make it a semantic debate. Yes, there's a there's a blind positiveness and there's an an aware positiveness but the way I like to define it is um a leader or someone who's constantly positive. That is actually very unhealthy. Um uh because for one it's just not true. In very dark times when our leader comes and goes, "Everything's great, guys. look at all the good things that are happening. It's like, shut up. Right? Um and and when

[00:21:10]
you see somebody in very hard times who's always positive, it actually makes you feel worse about yourself because you're thinking, God, if they're always positive, it doesn't mean something wrong with me. So, it's actually it's actually not helpful. And it does not breed uh especially. I I understand why leaders do it. It's well-intentioned. It just doesn't work. Optimism is the opposite. Optimism is not naive, nor is it blind. Uh it is the undying belief that the future is bright, but we can sit in hell and darkness and struggle. Now, optimism allows for that. Um optimism allows you to say, "Look, these are the darkest times we've ever been in. And I don't even know how long it's going to last, and I don't even know 100% how to get through it. But what I do know is that if we work together and take care of each other, we 100% will get through this, and we will come out stronger than we went in." That's optimism. And that's what good leaders are able to do. They're able to help us work together in darkness but not ignore the fact that it's dark. Yeah, absolutely. One of my favorite phrases is it might get worse before it gets better, but the getting

[00:22:10]
better is the important part, right? So, I I agree with you. It usually gets worse before it gets better. Yeah. Time after time. All right, let's talk about change a little bit. Change is often accompanied by fear and resistance. How can we shift our mindset to view change as an opportunity for growth and innovation? And what are some practical strategies we can use to cultivate a more optimistic outlook during times of change? All right, that's a big one. Um, okay. So, I I love all these change management I love all these change management powerpoints that are always given. People fear change. No, they don't. People fear sudden change. You know, gradual change is not threatening. You know, evolution offends no one. You know, um, and sometimes the result of that evolutionary change can be profound and there's no going back. Um people don't fear change. Uh people um don't want whatever is working for them to be disrupted. Right? So it's not that I fear the change. It's that this is working well for me. I don't want this to change.

[00:23:10]
Like and and I look at that with uncertainty going is it going to take away this? Then I don't want it. And usually when people are resistant to change, it's not the change they're resistant to. It's fear that someone younger will take over my job. someone less expensive will replace me. It's fear that whatever has been working for me that got me promoted time and time again will no longer work. It's always it's almost 100% fear-based. And so if you can just recognize that instead of giving people powerpoints with rational explanations why a change is good and you can look forward to this change, it doesn't you you what you're attempting to do is is address emotions with facts. You can never bring facts to emotional gunfight. You have to meet people where they are. Emotion meets emotion. Facts meet facts. So, um, the first thing to do is sit down and understand and listen to people. Tell me what you tell me what's going on. Tell me what you tell me what you fear. Do you fear anything? And they'll always project it's this that's broken. It's that doesn't work. But at the end of the day, and we have a

[00:24:10]
rule at our company, which is if the response is above a five, it's about something else. Like when you leave your fridge open and your partner screams at you like why do you always leave the fridge open? It's like it's not about the fridge, right? And so usually when people are that resistant, it's usually not about whatever change you're proposing. And so a good leader will spend the time to go and make that person feel heard. That's the most important part. It doesn't mean then they're going to get what they want, but people want to feel heard, right? Like something like 70% of medical malpractice suits are because the doctor refused to apologize, right? People want to be seen and people want to be heard. And if they feel validated and they feel like their points of view are considered, people don't always expect to get what they want. They just want to know that they've been seen and that they and that they matter. Yeah, absolutely. That makes a lot of sense. I mentioned briefly earlier, you know, I feel like we're going through a period of a lot of change now. And it is the suddeness of it usually that catches us so off guard. In the technology industry, sudden changes happen all the time. Um, you

[00:25:10]
mentioned earlier about the the the iPad or the the the iPhone iPhone, I'm sorry, rendering the iPod completely uh extinct and how that was fine for Apple. They were able to handle that because it aligned with their By the way, I think they should bring them back and give them to children so that they can cuz my nephew's like, I'm listening to music on my iPhone. I'm like, are you though? Anyway, but but but I digress. Yeah, that's totally fine. Bring back MP3 players. All right, let's talk about uh the Clifton Strengths Top Five Assessment, which I know that you have a partnership with. So, as part of Gear Up, uh the Google School is also making the Clifton Strengths Top Five Assessment available to every Googler around the world. So, take note of that. Go to the Go link. Um what why do you think it's important to lead with our strengths to to find them, recognize them, and then lead with them? And what have you learned by doing this for yourself? So yeah, I like the StrengthFinder and we did do it we did do it as a whole as a whole company. Everybody did it. Um and it does it does

[00:26:13]
a lot of things, right? Um the frustration you have with somebody who you just you just they annoy you at work. Um and I don't mean their personality. I mean like there's some something's driving you nuts. Um it helps understand that they're actually in a position where they're struggling. It does they're not leaning into their natural strengths. So you're expecting everybody to be their their strengths to be your strengths, right? So it just helps you see people as people and it and you're like, "Oh, that's why." And it becomes much easier to help people like sit in their strengths. It also for people who are insecure or defensive, we all are at some point about what we're good and bad at. You look at it be like, "Well, that's why I suck at that." And it sort of takes a weight off your own shoulders, you know, that I can't be good at everything. It also helps you understand teaming. Um, uh, and it also helps you sort of just recognize and relate to each other. Um, like futuristic is uh I think one of my uh one of my big ones. Iterative, strategic. Those are sort of I think some my big ones. And like when you get to know me and you recognize that

[00:27:13]
basically I live with my head in the clouds, you know, that's why you know my execution is like this big. I need other people around me to help me execute my ideas. Um uh and if you and you if you and and what I think strengthfinders does is it it allows for something that I like to call uh confident ignorance, right? Which is we're always told in sort of leadership theory that you have to be vulnerable. You have to say what you you know say you don't know something if you don't know something, you know, and admit your shortcomings. And that's scary to a lot of people because nobody wants to be weak. But there's confident influence, right? So, for example, if somebody's like, "I need you to do this." You're like, "Ah, I don't know how to do that. Uh, I'm definitely going to need help." Uh, don't do that. Like, that will freak people out. Right? But if you say, "Oh, I suck at this. I have no idea how to do that. I'm definitely going to need help to do that. Need help to to execute

[00:28:13]
that." If you just own it, that's the confident ignorance. Just be super confident in what you don't know. Yeah. be super confident in what your weaknesses are. It actually is quite inspiring. It actually gives people a clues as to where you need help, which means they'll help you, but also it helps them. It creates space so that they'll be honest back to you. So, if you're in a leadership position especially and you're confident in the things you don't know, guess what the team will do? They'll be confident in the things they don't know and then you can help them. But if you're lying and hagging and faking every day pretending you know everything and you know all the answers, guess what your team's going to do? pretend they know all the answers all the time because we generally follow our leaders. Yeah, absolutely. Now, you touched on something that reminded me of a previous topic as well in terms of competition versus worthy rivals, right? And knowing your own strengths, the strengths of the people that you're not competing with, but operating within the same the same game within and how you might be able to sharpen steel against steel. Can you tell me a little bit more about that and viewing people as rivals you can learn and grow from versus people that you must defeat? Sure. So in a in a finite game you have competitors.

[00:29:13]
You play to beat someone, right? They are your competition. In an infinite game, there is no competition because there's no winning and losing, right? And yet the fact that we call other companies in our space or even our colleagues competitors is actually incorrect, right? Um uh they are other players and they are rivals and some of those rivals are worthy of comparison. In other words, they're really good at what they do. In fact, sometimes they're better at some things than we are. And so I believe in the concept of worthy rivalry, which is find another player who is as good or better than you in some things um uh that their strengths reveal to you your weaknesses and use them as a foil. Be grateful for them. Now go work on those weaknesses. Right? So where uh I have no problem with Microsoft making a great MP3 player, but start trying to beat Apple. just use Apple as a foil and be like, "Oh my god, look how good their product is." Guys, we need to do better, right? Um, so, uh,

[00:30:15]
and we can do it at work, too. You know, we we pick people to we compete against at work, which think about that, like when you hear somebody got a promotion and you get mad, right? Like you got mad at somebody else's success. Well, they don't deserve it. Maybe not. I mean, this nobody said this was always fair, right? Think about all the promotions you got. Uh cuz I deserved all of every single one. Every single one over everybody else. Yeah. No. Uh uh but having worthy rivals at work is totally fine to be like, "Oh my god, that person, they're so good at public speaking. They're such a great engineer. They're so good at like the way they lead and other people just like follow them that if they quit, I knew that like 10 people are going to leave with them. like I want to be like that. Instead of hating them and trying to bring them down, use them to learn from them, watch them, study them, use them as your worthy rival, your p your pacer. Um, and maybe you'll outgrow them and they won't be your worthy rival anymore. That's

[00:31:16]
fine, too. Um, but I think worthy rivalry is a much healthier way of viewing other players in the game. Yeah, absolutely. Awesome. We're going to transition to some questions that came directly from Googlers, if that's all right. Uh, so our first one is from Isam and I apologize if I mispronounce any of your names. Isam from Dublin. In a world increasingly [Laughter] in a world increasingly driven by artificial intelligence and automation, how can individuals find and maintain a sense of purpose? And what role should leaders play in helping them do so? So, so the great thing about technology and the great thing about technologists is they have great imaginations and that's part of how the technology gets invented and advanced, right? Somebody dreams of something insane and they build a a crappy version of it, right?

[00:32:17]
Like for those of you old enough to remember when the internet showed up and people predicted the end of bricks and mortar, that there would be no more bricks and mortar stores. All shopping would be online. Well, that didn't happen. Turns out people like browsing and trying things on. Now, there are challenges to those bricks and mortars staying open from a strictly numbers standpoint, but we like going shopping. You know, we're hunter gatherers. And so, those predictions were completely wrong. even though the technology would allow for it. And this is part of the problem with technologists. And no disrespect to any of the engineers in the room, but like technology doesn't solve human problems. Technology won't replace a friend, right? Yes, it might be able to give you some advice in hard times, but at the end of the day, to be able to just sit with somebody and if somebody's going through a hard time to feel their hand on your shoulder and say, "Don't worry, I got your back." There's no technology that's ever going to replace that. Um, and I think a lot

[00:33:19]
of the promises of AI are just that. They're promises and very few if any of them are being realized right now. It's fun. It's having and algorithms are not a new thing. You know, we've had AI for a long time. It's becoming more sophisticated without a doubt. Some of it's incredible, but I I think I think a lot of the promises are yet to be realized. Um, so I'm kind of in a wait and see mode, but I also I'm also doubling down on on humanity, you know, and I and I and I not to be cynical, but if we go back to the 70s and 80s where robotics started to show up in in factories, for example, and uh a robotics kind of did a lot of harm to the livelihoods of people in blue collar jobs, they were replaced by robots. Go to a car factory. It's a lot of robots and a few people. It used to be a lot of people with few robots. And when people in those jobs said, "You're destroying

[00:34:19]
our livelihoods." Sort of the white collar world, you know, Wall Street and technologists said, you know, just reskill, right? Well, AI is going to do nothing to blue color work. Like AI is not going to replace the baggage handler at the airport. AI is not going to replace your plumber to fix your toilet. It's just not going to happen, right? It's not going to build your house, right? Blue collar work is about as strong as it can be in the AI world. Where it's going to affect is the knowledge economy. And it's kind of like it's kind of like a balancing. Mhm. you know and so yeah there's going to be a lot of knowledge work that will be replaced by AI without a doubt will it completely decimate it no will there be new jobs created that we can't imagine of course and by the way I don't think prompter is one of them uh and the reason is is you need to have a prompter because right now the techn is not very

[00:35:21]
sophisticated and so you need to know how to ask it questions that'll be solved in a couple years where you can just speak like you and I are now and it'll be able to basically understand it so That's a nonsense job. For all of our prompt engineers in the crowd, just take note. No, but it's good for now, just not forever. But I think there's going to be a rebalancing is what it's going to be. And there will be some new skill sets that we need to go go build up. And yes, knowledge work is going to be the place that it's going to hurt, not blue collar work. Um, you know, it's just that's how the that's how it went. Um, but I do think that that jobs will switch. So, for example, um in my world, the writer is the king and the editor is like me, you know, and uh I think that'll completely flop. I think, you know, AI can write a shitty first draft of a press release, but you need a person to edit it. And so, I think editors, people with good editorial eyes are going to become heroes. Whereas the the the writer who can write the shitty first

[00:36:21]
draft and then give it to the editor that used to be treated like the hero and spend, you know, a week working on that whatever that draft was that that's the job that's going to be decimated. But but editors editors of everything. So prompt editor is what we should prompt editor. Exactly. Exactly. Because at the end of the day, you know, AI is good at taking old work and like I'm not afraid of AI. AI like if you said write a book in the style of Simon Synynic, it'll write a book based on what I've done, right? But it has no idea what I'm thinking. It's not going to come up with the idea of like I'm writing a book about friendship. AI would not conceive of that. Right? So I think new ideas and looking forwards and this is why having why and having purpose and having cause matters because I'm always looking way ahead going like this. AI is behind. AI is looking backwards asking where I came from. I don't care where I'm came from. I care where I'm going. And so I think the more that we can focus on where we're going and AI becomes a tool to help do that, but I don't think it's threatening if

[00:37:22]
you're forward focused. Yeah, absolutely. Awesome. Thank you. We have a second question here from Valentina in Boulder. Quite a long question, so I might cut it up a little bit. Uh Simon, you often speak about the importance of finding purpose and meaning in our work and our lives. In a world facing increasing uncertainty and change, how can we cultivate genuine optimism without falling into the trap of toxic positivity, which we touched on earlier, or trying to force meaning onto events that feel overwhelming and beyond our control? I like that second part, which is forcing meaning on things. I find that very interesting and it's it's uh I have a friend, this is this is great. I have a friend who called me up and she's sort of woowoo. Uh, I'm saying I just realized I'm saying that in like one of the woo woo capitals of the world, Pacific Northwest. Anyway, she she's woowoo and I call her up to check in on her and she's going through a hard

[00:38:22]
time and I'm like, "How are you?" She goes, "It's difficult, but I'm I'm supposed to be learning a lesson." I said, "How are you?" She goes, "I'm I'm struggling, but the universe is telling me that I need to, you know, up my game." I'm like, "How do you feel?" She goes, "And this went on like so many rounds." Yeah. And I just kept saying, "But how do you feel? How do you feel?" And she just kept telling me that, you know, the universe is trying to teach her a lesson and she needs to look inside deep and all this stuff. And I just said, "Can you stop with all of this, please, and just tell me how you feel?" And she says, "I'm sad." And she started crying. I said, "Just sit in that, please. Like, don't worry about if the what you're supposed to learn. Don't worry about if it's a sign you're sad. Just be sad, you know." And I think our society has forgotten. Here's how I'll tell you. So, I I love art. I'm have I I buy a lot of art. And

[00:39:22]
I bought this sketch, this beautiful sketch of a dead bird. and it showed up in the mail and I opened it up and I was like I had the biggest buyer's remorse. I was like, "What the hell am I doing buying a picture of a dead bird? I'm not going to hang a dead bird on my wall." And I was just like, you know, and I by sheer dumb luck, I had a friend who was visiting, who was over at the time when it showed up in the mail, who was an artist. And she says to me, she says to me, uh, a good art collection has a, uh, what does she say? She says a, a good art collection encaptures all the emotions. And I went, yeah. And then I had my dead bird framed and I hang it on the wall. And I love my dead bird now because I have I have all the emotions in my art collection, not just the happy ones. And

[00:40:22]
and the same is true for people, right? A healthy person has all the emotions. If you get stuck in sadness, that's a clinical problem. If you get stuck in happiness, that's not healthy either, right? A good well-rounded human being has all the emotions, and we should be okay with having emotions. In fact, we've made it that it's a bad thing to have emotions. Like think about how we talk about mental health. We talk about mental health like it's a goal. You either have it or you don't, right? Um which is nonsense. I don't even like the term mental health. I like the term mental fitness. It's something you're constantly working on. Like fitness is something that we're supposed to always be doing. Sometimes we fall off the wagon, sometimes we get back on, but it's a it's a lifelong process. And mental fitness is the same thing. I should always be working on my mental fitness. Sometimes I'm ahead and sometimes I'm behind. But it's okay to be sad or confused or uncertain or depressed or and just go through and the most important thing for us to do is just say it. How are you? Uh if I'm

[00:41:23]
honest, a little sad. What's making you sad? Not really sure. Anything you want to talk about? No. No. I'm good. Well, I'm here for you. I appreciate that. And just knowing we're not alone. Yeah. That's what makes us capable of managing our emotions and being in our emotions. um my friend Rick who's like a he's a monk to all of us you know I asked him about loneliness uh and I said to I said Rick do you ever get lonely and he said never I'm always with myself and I've taken that on like I've taken that on and I've taken sort of being okay with my emotions but I think I I love what she says like trying to find meaning where there is none sometimes it's just a bad Okay, sometimes you didn't get enough sleep. I mean, who knows what? Sometimes you just feel a little lonely and a little shitty. Okay, just make sure you're okay with it and make sure maybe somebody knows and that's it. Yeah, that makes sense. Awesome. Uh, we have a question from

[00:42:24]
Dennis in New York. In your view, what role does optimism play in driving innovation? How can Google employees use optimism to fuel creativity and breakthrough thinking, especially in times of uncertainty? You have to have optimism for innovation. You have to have an infinite mindset for innovation. Otherwise, it's features and benefits. Otherwise, you just make the screen a little bigger and make it a little faster. That's all you ever get, right? And that's usually where tech goes. It goes to features and benefits because because uh the pressures become greater. The risk tolerances become smaller in in companies. Uh the the incentive structures no longer reward risk-taking. They reward success. Right? I remember when I was young in my career, I'll spare you the whole story, but basically I took part in something that failed and I got a huge promot promotion and they promoted me for my initiative. They rewarded the behavior, not the outcome. And great cultures will recognize the behaviors that they want repeated. Yeah. Not just the outcomes. Because if it's only outcome based, we're going to play it safe because we're more likely to get an outcome, right? Um, and so Leaps, you

[00:43:27]
know, the same year that Babe Ruth broke the record for home runs, he also broke the record for strikeouts. Uh, uh, and I think it was Hank Aaron who broke his record, he broke the strikeout record as well, right? Um, uh, so I think optimism plays a huge role and that's where cause comes in, which is we're trying to advance something way bigger than ourselves and the company and the leaders can easily describe the vision, the idealistic vision of the world we're trying to build. I have a dream. All men are created equal. Like these are visions of worlds that don't exist and never will, but they are strivings and and and the joy and the the sense of progress that we make every time we accomplish something that makes us feel like we're getting closer to that idealistic state. But idealism and the and and and and the optimism that idealism breeds is essential. And I fear that it's been lost in our country. It's been lost from our national leaders. And by the way, I don't it's not a political thing. It's been probably since the fall of the Berlin Wall. like no Democrat or Republican has effectively articulated a vision for America that inspires all Americans. Um, and I think we've lost it

[00:44:28]
in in business. If I if we look at our our our our business leaders today and in in our biggest companies, they're more obsessed with their shareholder value than they are with the visions that they founded the companies with. Um, they're uh more obsessed with short-term incentive structures than they are with long-term bets, even if they fail a bunch of times. They fear Wall Street, which is hilarious to me. How can you claim to be a leader when you do what a 27-y old analyst tells you to do? And it's all of these things. We keep replacing visionary CEOs with operators to run our companies. The number of CEOs that were the COO or CFO is amazing. Uh and uh um and they have proven track records. No visionary has a proven track record because it's all nonsense. It's all madness, right? um um but they inspire people to come and take the risks with them. And I don't blame any particular company or leader. I just think over the past 40 years the way that capitalism has gotten and the rise of Miltonian and and Jack Welchian uh capitalism, we've seen an

[00:45:29]
one of the side effects uh is an eroding of optimism and idealism. I think we need it back and we need the leaders who will give it back to us. Now you bring up a good point about uh the those companies who had started by visionaries and then eventually get taken over by operators. Can you tell me a little bit more about your assessment of some of those companies and for some of them there have been times where new visionaries are brought in who can recapture the original why the original cause get a company back on track. We saw what we saw it we saw it we saw Bill Gates get replaced by his operator by Balmer and Balmer is a very talented executive when he's working alongside a visionary but we saw what happened at Microsoft right they became uninspiring they became short-term focused they couldn't attract talent the best talent left the place was a I I mean I visited during those days I mean nobody was having fun you know fear was the was the overriding feeling at work you know watching your back with the overriding feeling. And when Bomber left, Satcha

[00:46:29]
came in and he restored some of that that vision. You know, Mike Duke at Walmart, he was pure pure operator who only cared about short-term incentive structures and he was replaced by Doug McMillan who brought back some of the the magic. And you see morale and you see like people hated Walmart. Now they like Walmart again. Like you can see what what happens internally happens externally as well. Michael Dell replaced himself with his operator. He had to come back. Howard Schultz replaced himself with his operator twice. He had to come back, right? Um and it's just this repeating pattern. And I know why why we do it. Um when you talk to the visionary and you say, "Who should replace you?" They look at their CFO or CEO and they say, "I couldn't have done it without them." True. They know about they know more they know more about the workings of the business than I do. True. Um I trust them more than anybody else. True. The problem is they're not visionary. The problem is the wrong skill set for the job. And what makes great companies is the partnership

[00:47:30]
of visionary and operator because visionaries by themselves just drool on themselves and have great ideas about how to change the world. But you know, they can't build the companies. Yeah. Right. Uh at least not in the way that they need to be built. But it's this magical partnership that makes great companies and operators will always do well in life because they know how to get things done. Visionaries really need the operators more. But it's it's the partnership, but the visionary needs to lead the vision and the operator needs to have the the strength of ego to say it's not my vision, but damn, I believe in it and I know how to build it. And it's the partnership that's so magical. Um, and it's very hard to put the visionary in the subordinate position uh in a in a corporation that that requires vision. Yeah, absolutely. We've lost even the definition of vision, right? What's your vision? And they give us some financial number by some date. Well, that's what you mentioned earlier. Even outcomes like promotions and making money are those are results. Those are not actually causes, right? Can you talk a little bit more about that? The the the what'ss that prove your why a little

[00:48:30]
bit. So I I by the way, money is fine, but let's recognize the role that money plays inside a visionary organization, right? Which is it's the fuel that makes the car go. So if the car is the company and the vision is the destination that you're trying to get to, money makes the car go. If you don't have money, the car doesn't go. No vision is accomplished. So money is an essential component, but it's not the reason to own a car. You don't own a car just so you can buy gas, right? For the same reason, you don't start a company just so you can make money. That's inconsistent. We make we buy a car to go places. We started the business to advance something, to move towards something, to change the way the world functions. And the money will get us there. And somewhere along the way, we take our eyes off the road and start looking obsessively at the gas tank, you know. Um, and I think some of it's gotten a little a little confused for a lot of companies. Um, and you can tell a lot about what a company believes by looking at their products. Um, I'll give you a little inside baseball. So,

[00:49:31]
when I was writing Start with Why, I had all these theories about Apple and I'd never really visited or met anybody at Apple. They were just theories. And I thought before I publish a book, I should probably check. So we sent a note to Apple ask requesting an interview with Steve Jobs. And I didn't know this at the time, but my publisher had uh uh my publisher had published an unauthorized biography of Steve Jobs. And so because I was associated with that publisher, uh, I was told to no, I was told, not only can I not interview jobs, I can't interview anybody and I may never viv visit campus. Oh, and by the way, all your ideas are wrong. So I had no inside access. Yeah. The only thing that I had was the way that Apple talked about itself. So I looked at its packaging. I looked at its products. I looked at its store experience. I looked at its advertising.

[00:50:31]
I looked at its PR. I read its legal type on a box. I read I just looked at everything that was public. And you can see a very clear pattern of who they are, who they were, and what they stood for. And so I could easily assess what the why was because what they did proved it. What they did was so consistent. Some of the what's made money, some of the what's didn't make money, but it didn't matter. The through line was there. And so I was able to accurately say this is what Apple st stands for stood for just by looking at what they put out there. So I think when when you you asked me the question before you know how do you use the why? The Y is a filter. So Disney for example um went off the rails when uh at the later half of Michael Eisner's tenure because he became obsessed with world domination. when Bob Iger and and Tom Stags took over uh um they sat down with the portfolio and they divested of things that didn't make sense. So they got rid of the production company that made Pulp

[00:51:32]
Fiction. They got rid of the music company that um that had bands in it called World War III that was named one of the bands that did death metal. Not very Disney. And they just they they were profitable, but they didn't they didn't prove the Disney ethos, so they just divested them. Disney has never and it will never go into casinos. Like, think about that. A Star Wars and Marvel casino on the Vegas strip, best casino ever. Good. It'll never happen because it doesn't fit the ethos. You'd scratch your head and say that doesn't make sense, right? And so they're very disciplined about doing things. Not they don't just chase profit first. They say should we in this business be in this business now how are we going to make a profit doing it but there's a filter first and I think what happens for a lot of companies they chase the money before the before they run the filter so using your why is that filter absolutely all right we have a question from myoko in New York it's it can feel easy to be

[00:52:33]
an optimist when things are going well tips do you have for maintaining an optimistic mindset when things are tough especially for an extended or uncertain period of time yeah So, a couple things. It goes back to the answer I gave some moments ago, which is the future is bright. And for an optimist to say, "This sucks." And what you double down on is relationships. You double down on taking care of each other. You double down on all of the principles of good leadership. And so, how you make it work, whether you're in a position of formal leadership or not, and this is important, which is every one of us can be the leaders we wish we had, whether we have the formal rank or not. And you take responsibility for making sure that you're good. You're good. We're good. You take responsibility for saying, "Folks, I don't know how long this is going to be. I don't know. This is This sucks. This sucks. It sucks for you. It sucks for me. I don't like this either. This sucks. But I know that if we take care of each other, we will get through this stronger than we than we than we feel now." Um, and uh and what you find

[00:53:35]
is the strength of those relationships. If somebody's laid off, they leave with this network. Uh if people decide to quit, they take people with them because we follow people. Yeah. Right. And so what you're doing is is is is relationships will always outlast everything else. There's nothing certain about anything at work. New technologies are disruptive. Uh new leaders are sometimes disruptive. Uh corporate strategies are sometimes disruptive. And we can't rely that everybody makes the right decisions. People in leadership positions make stupid decisions and sometimes we're the the the the collateral damage of stupid decisions. It happens all the time. Doesn't mean they're bad people. Just means they made a stupid leadership decision and didn't consider the the the ripples. So the thing that we have to double down on is friendship. Is friendship. It is the thing. And that doesn't mean we're going to avoid struggle. I'll give you a perfect example. I had the opportunity to visit Kenya this year and uh for

[00:54:37]
those who haven't been please go and we went to rural Kenya into the into the Mara and we like poverty mud huts all the tropes right um and you start to realize that they're happy they don't die of heart disease they don't die of uh diabetes a lot of they have a lot less cancer And yes, they have struggle. They have struggle that we can't comprehend. Walking for hours to get water. Yes, all that is true. They absolutely have struggle. But they have each other in a way that we don't. And we we look down on them, you know, because we have wealth and they don't have wealth. Like our kids have lots of toys. Their kids have a stick and attire, you know, but there's data that shows that um children with too many toys, children with more toys have a worse imagination than children with fewer toys. So yeah, the kid's got a stick and a tire and he's laughing and he's with his friends, you know, and you realize that kid's got an

[00:55:38]
imagination. He's not playing with a stick and tire. He's playing up here. Yeah. You know, and um the way they talk about leadership and the way they talk about taking care of each other and and I started to realize like we're so addicted to money, we're so addicted to wealth that we feel sorry people for people who don't have wealth, right? And so it's like a heroin addict feeling sorry for somebody who doesn't feel my high. And we're looking at the heroin addict going, "Yeah, I know you feel good, but you know you're addicted to heroin, right?" Uh, and I realized like like I think we can double down on imagination. We can double down on having less. We can double down on community. We can double down on taking care of each other. We can double down on celebrating the success of others. we can double down on the joy of helping someone else achieve. And that's the some of the people I met there. They were the most remarkable leaders, the most remarkable people I've ever met. And they have a pittance for what we have. And I think

[00:56:38]
they we may have wealth, but they're a lot wealthier than we are. Absolutely. Well, thank you very very much, Simon, for sharing all of these thoughts with us. This conversation has given me a lot to think about. I hope you all have enjoyed it as well. And Simon, thank you so much for being with us here today. This is a real enjoy. Thanks so much. [Applause]