
[00:00:00]
Do you have any life hacks or personal hacks that have benefited you over the years that might benefit somebody listening? Well, meditating in the morning works really well for me. Being in quiet and um being alone in the morning really works for me. Every morning? Every morning. How long? Probably 45 minutes to an hour. Oh, that's serious. Yeah. No, like alone. Yeah. Alone with my thoughts. And then I have So you're not necessarily sitting there saying all and meditating. I meditate for like 20 minutes. Okay. But it's the alone time as well. Yeah. Then I just kind of look out the window. I look at the sky. Sometimes I'll then maybe I'll write a poem or I'll So it's the And then I write a to-do list for um my day. Okay. I do that. I definitely like I need to do this, I need to talk about that, I need to send a note about this. And you write a little to-do list every day. And I exercise uh because that's really good for my head um and

[00:01:00]
obviously for if you know if I want to be independent and I want to age well you know that's a really big part of and my work in the Alzheimer's space in the women's health space has really taught me a lot about how do I want to redefine aging? How do I want to age? um you know and I remember recently I went to a birthday party for a 70th birthday party I was with my daughter and I was like oh my god this people are so old she was like mommy this is your age group I was like what she goes these people are your age I was like no they're not she goes yeah they are like okay you know so I was like okay I I I want to be around vibrant um you know alive people I really want to be alive and I think a lot about what does that, you know, cuz you can have one 70-year-old and one 70-year-old or you can have one 30-year-old. Well, I know a lot of 30-year-olds who are like, "Ugh, you know, so I really want to be alive." I have a book in my living room that says

[00:02:01]
becoming alive. I want to be alive. I want to I want to feel it all. And that means the good, the bad, and the ugly, right? And so I think that's my And then on my weekend, I think a lot about what kind of week I want. I write down what kind of week do I want? What do I want to do in that week? What do I want it to mean to me? And um my other hack is is that I check in on people. The I really like this idea. You start every morning. Yeah. But you really start every day with a check with a with a to-do list and then and then the weekend what I want to do this week. So an intention for the day and an intention for the week. Exactly. That's a that's a good one. That's really good. [Music]