
[00:00:00]
Can you share some of the things that you've learned about this happiness practice? If you understand that your default setting is happy, then there is nothing you need to bring from outside you to find happiness. You need to remove [ __ ] to be happy. And that negation strategy is quite an interesting one. So that's good. This is so actionable. I love this. Which is it's the reverse of of what most people do, which is they make a list of the things that they think will bring them happiness. But what you do this this is you make the list of the things that are causing you stress and you go about removing them. You remove the it's a removal process not an add and there is a reason for that. So good being happy is a choice but that doesn't mean it's an easy choice. Mo Gaat had to face that choice under the most excruciating of circumstances. After the tragic death of his 21-year-old son, Ally, Mo was forced to contemplate how being happy could even be a possibility. After a meteoric and lucrative career as chief business officer at Google X, he had all the

[00:01:01]
money and all the power, but he was miserable. It sounds strange to say, but it took the death of his son to teach him how to find happiness. Now a best-selling author, Mo has dedicated his work to figuring out where true happiness comes from. And it starts with a powerful truth. Happiness isn't something we find. It's something we practice by choosing joy even when life hurts. This is a bit of optimism. [Music] This episode is brought to you by True Classic. I wear their t-shirts and have long before they became a sponsor and it's really cool to see how their company is growing. You are living proof at an extreme level that human beings can hold two opposite feelings at the same time. Oh wow. Are we starting that deep? Yes. Sorry. That's actually Yeah,

[00:02:02]
I shouldn't start that deep, should I? I went straight in. We don't have to start there. We can No, no, we start anywhere. But it I was when I was when I was learning about you, you know, Yeah, we could talk about tech and how you and all this, but but at the end of the day, one of the I learned this during lockdown. Yeah. You know, cuz my business was thrown into chaos. I know. And secretly, I was loving it because I I like I like I like chaos because there's creativity in chaos. I was having fun and I had tremendous guilt that I was having fun and I didn't tell anybody I was having fun because I was also mourning the insanity and the loss and death and fear and I had to I struggled with those opposing feelings guilt for having fun and yet having real sadness and I learned during lockdown during COVID era I learned that human beings can hold two sometimes opposing feelings things. It's at the same time. It's the

[00:03:04]
design of the universe, my friend. It's it is the uncertainty principle at its best. I think the idea of paradoxical existence is uh is probably one of the least uh celebrated forms of intelligence uh which I I tend to believe is a bit more associated with the feminine. you you know those who associate with the feminine will be a little more comfortable with looking you in the eyes and say I love you but I [ __ ] hate you at the same time you know that feeling and I've heard that said to me and and it actually it it holds true huh and and and you know and it goes deep into you know uh situations where people would want to believe that one side is right and the other is wrong when everyone is wrong or that one side is wrong and the other is right when everyone's Right. And and you know and and it is quite a um it's quite a a a frowned upon let's say view in the business world because you need

[00:04:04]
certainty and data to be able to make a decision and back it up and say I made it because of this. Yeah. And uh but it is important because life is not that straightforward. At the risk of going too deep too soon. No. Go for it. Um, let's back up a second and because you and I know what we're talking about, but people on the other end may not know what we're talking about. How you at an extreme level hold two feelings simultaneously? Um, unbelievable loss and unbelievable discovery. Yeah. Is that fair to put it that way? Uh, it it would be at the time it would be quite challenging to call it a loss now, honestly. Yeah. So Ali Habibi u I have Ali and a uh my son and my daughter. Yeah. And Ali uh was that one of those people that you know sort of overwhelmingly make you love them. Like it is you know those people it's like

[00:05:04]
you're trying to find something that sort of like breaks it a little bit. Yeah, but he had, you know, when he was in his in his early teens, uh, Ali, most of his photographs with his friends, he would be standing in the middle and like six girls from this side and two boys and five girls on the other side holding him, you know, like literally reaching out. He had this incredible incredible presence to him. And uh and then he leaves and you know he he he leaves our world because of a uh a medical malpractice basically. simplest simplest and and and uh and uh and uh and uh shock because he uh he was studying in northeastern in Boston at the time and he uh had you know he had a band and uh they were touring uh the US uh in summer and then he texts in May and says hey guys I feel obligated I'm

[00:06:04]
verbatim to come and see you before the tour uh Uh and so we say of course Habibi will book his tickets. A my daughter was studying in Canada uh was coming as well. I took a couple of weeks off as if almost I knew I don't know and uh then he gets an appendix inflammation the simplest surgery ever and the surgeon does five mistakes in a row. Every one of them fixable every one of them avoidable to start. Uh and he fixes three of them wrong. And uh so it's malpractice on top of malpractice. Uh yeah, I'd uh I mean it took me quite a bit of time not to rage uh because also rage wouldn't have brought Ali back if you think about it. But anyway, 4 hours later, Ali's no longer with us. And uh and you and I know uh that you know, we've you sort of are are paid your whole life to fix problems.

[00:07:06]
And so to you have that mentality that everything's fixable if you put enough bandwidth to it. Uh not death. No. And and suddenly you're faced for the very first time with something that really stops you in your tracks. And uh and uh my my daughter and Ali were and Ali were very close. And so uh what's the age difference? One and a half one and a bit. Super close. Yeah. One and four months or something like that. And Ali was quite a honestly he was the masculine figure in her life. I was running around like a typical businessman closing billion dollar deals and you know celebrating my ego and and uh and he he would call her every single day literally Boston and Montreal not very far. Uh and he would go visit her every like really he was the father figure if you want. Yeah. uh two weeks before he dies, he he uh he tells her that he had a dream

[00:08:07]
uh that he was everywhere and part of everyone which uh which if you understand spirituality of course I understand that now but you know if you understand if you have a spiritual inclination being outside spaceime in your non-physical form gets lends you the ability to be everywhere and part of everyone. M uh but that's not how I understood it then. I was then chief business officer of Google X. I had previously been the vice president of emerging markets at Google for 7 years. So I had basically opened most of Google's businesses uh worldwide and uh and and so I knew how to make something everywhere and part of everyone if you want. M and so my the the the the message in my mind and my heart really was blurred. I heard her say everywhere and part of everyone and I thought of it as a target and so I basic seriously and it's so

[00:09:08]
weird because all I could hear myself saying is of course habibi consider it done if that's your wish. It's a business plan. It's a business plan. Yeah. and my devious plan. Interestingly, I mean, if you know the story before, I was the typical success success story. I was filthy rich by age 29 and uh I had this very unusual math uh skill and I was a a software developer and like Malcolm Gladwell would would say the you know in in Outliers right place at the right time. So my my peak was when the internet started. I coded at the time 1996 uh a bit of a of a crawler like the Google crawlers afterwards where I would go across the internet find news about stocks and I would wake up every morning at 6:00 a.m. with buy and sell recommendations and print money on demand. It was really really successful

[00:10:10]
and uh I don't know if I call that success now but let's call it rich. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and uh and so the more you succeed and realize that this is not what you want, the more depressed you become. And so I was clinically depressed. Everything. I had a beautiful wife, two wonderful kids, you know, massive uh home uh with the garden and swimming pool and, you know, cars and everything you want. And of course when you're depressed uh you try and you're rich you you pour money on the problem but you know money doesn't solve the problem so you become more desperate if you want it's like this is not solvable and at the time who helped me Ali and so Ali was this wise little Zen monk yeah it was really really unbelievable you would talk to him since maybe age six or seven and he would literally sit there silently

[00:11:11]
looking at you very curious uh and then asks you a couple of questions almost like you know to entertain you. It's like yeah you know I'm I'm I'm interested. I'm interested and then eventually says something like well he could have asked me right and and then he would repeat what I said blending a bit of heart in it which I'm I'm the I'm the algorithm guy. Yeah. And and says it in eight words and I go like holy damn like this is it. Okay. So through my depression, if you want, I learned quite a bit with Ali. Mhm. And so when he died, my way of meeting the target, if you want, was I'm going to take what we discussed and put it in a book. Mhm. And if I can get to 10 million people uh and then 72 years later through six degrees of separation, my calculation would be that tiny bit of his essence would be everywhere and part of everyone. Weird as it sounds. Uh and so so 17 days after he dies, I'm

[00:12:13]
sitting down to write about happiness. And and uh do you do you do you weep while you're writing about happiness? I uh weep almost once a week till now. Uh but uh then I think I stopped once a week. Uh it is uh it's not I you know I think people can recognize from the bold head and the voice and the beard that I'm a manly man but uh you know I have to say uh emotions have been uh uh we we didn't give them time in in this very fast-paced modern world. I have so many questions. There's so much here here's the here's the struggle with your message if I can put it that way which is we we know these tropes money can't buy happiness. Yeah, we know it. We know the

[00:13:17]
number of wealthy people who come in and say but you have to understand it didn't make me happy. We know the importance of feelings even when we try and resist them. Like a lot of these things are known. And yet with all that knowledge, people still p perceive that money will buy them happiness and they still pursue riches versus fulfillment or joy. that we still think we can rationalize our way through relationships or explain our way through relationships or business plan our way through our emotions, right? Yes. And you know, and the I guess the the question I'm getting at is, you know, how much are you and I preaching to the converted? How much are people listening to this? And it's only the ones who've made the conversion, made the discovery, or are predisposed to it. I mean, you talked

[00:14:17]
about these, you said, you said right at the beginning, you know, women are better at nuance. Women are better at holding paradox and two feelings simultaneously. It's more quote unquote traditionally masculine to want exactness and and clarity and black and white. Yeah. Separation. Separation. Uh, you know, do we find ourselves preaching to the converted? How do we find language that somebody who knows all of the tropes says okay you've made me curious at least well I think I think the challenge is it's a lot more nuanced than than the simple sloans nothing you and I can explain or anyone for that matter is it can be summed in one sentence one sentences are made for Instagram right uh you know while while money most of the time doesn't buy you happiness. Uh poverty buys you unhappiness. And you

[00:15:17]
know this the research will tell you that uh if you're if you're unable to make ends meet basically if your income is less than the average income of the place you live in uh then you're it's hard to find happiness. I I can I can I question that? I know. Does poverty buy unhappiness? Is that true? Or is it is it that we know that up until a certain income that when you gain money it actually does buy happiness? So the correct right it's not the opposite. It's not that poverty I was going to come to that. Poverty doesn't necessarily make you unhappy because some of the poorest people in the world are the happiest, you know, travel to South A to sorry to to Africa or to South America. Yeah. And man, it's like if we're fed today, we're going to dance and love ours and their their lives are difficult. We have to confuse we cannot confuse struggle and happiness. But you see Daniel once again is our life easy. Our lives are easy. Uh

[00:16:18]
easy on some fronts, but the mental we don't worry about food. Yeah, exactly. For the most part. For the most part. But then what we what do we do? We create, you know, uh mental tigers in our heads and we run them over and over until they they make us miserable, right? Uh we we we read too much news. Uh we worry about the stock market. We do you know I'm not I'm what I'm trying to say is there is a so many levels of um there is no answer that says money does not buy you happiness or buys you happiness. The the answer is very straightforward. Huh. What is enough? Yeah. Okay. And you know I am I am today uh and and it's really this is where people struggle. I I'm only giggling because literally last night I was having this conversation with a friend where the richer somebody is, the more they're concerned about their taxes. Correct. Right. So like the richest people I know will live in places they don't want to live and when you ask them

[00:17:18]
why do you live there, they say taxes. I've never heard of anyone going bankrupt paying taxes. Right. Yeah. Um you have to make money to pay taxes. And it's it's the ungodly rich where if you took away by the way. And it's only on income. It's not on assets. Yeah. Right. So they only pay it once when they get that windfall and that's it, you know. But I just find that funny because you hyper optimize, right? And and and interestingly, of course, I mean again for everyone listening, uh paying taxes is a problem of privilege, right? So let's let's not not compare that to people who are hungry or in a war zone or whatever, right? Uh but but but but the reality is that for everyone their problems are as far stretching as they barely can handle. So I I'll I'll give you my own example. Yeah. Because of my eastern upbringing and my traditional uh spirituality if you want and because of a very weird thing that I did in early

[00:18:18]
in my life around what I call the mathematics of the divine. I tend to strongly believe that this is not the end of life, right? Uh that we live here that you know death is the is the opposite of birth. It's not the opposite of life, right? Uh right or wrong. Let's say that again. That's quite profound. Death is the opposite of birth. It is not the opposite of life. Yeah. If life was a video game, you come to this level of the game through a portal called birth and you leave this level of the game through a portal called death. Right. And the game continues way long before and long after. Right. and and and you know we can get into the mathematics of that if you want but irrelevant for me that means that the loss of Ali is a tiny bit more tolerable than someone else who doesn't have that belief right and so accordingly when when I look at my uh um you know my my my tendency to find certainty

[00:19:18]
I have absolutely zero certainty that I'll finish this interview, but I have a 100% certainty that sooner or later I'll be where he is. Right. And and if that is my mindset, then my v my my my the the weight of the problem is slightly different for me. And and it's quite interesting. Alihabibi, he had a tattoo on his back that he never showed me. Uh interesting. He had it when he was 16 and he went back to his mom and said, you know, I'm so upset that I used papa's money to to buy to to get it, but you know, when I get to pay him back, I'll show it to him. Right. Uh when it's his. Yeah. So I I I mean like why are you so nice, you little Anyway. Uh anyway, so he he he uh sits up on on the operating table before he walks in uh before they push him in and it shows and it says the gravity of the battle means nothing to those at peace. Right. Wow.

[00:20:19]
And it's the very last message. How old was he? He was 21 and a half when he left. I mean 21 and a half to have and he put that when he on his body when he was 16. When he was 16. It's almost as if he was plotting a very complex plan to make us love him and then you know literally the gravity of the battle means nothing to those who have peace at peace. Yeah. And and and it and it is and and it is quite you know quite the message you need when he leaves 4 hours later. Uh but it's also almost as if we settled all our debt to each other. Uh now that concept of those at peace is very different between you and I and everyone. I I am probably 10% of how rich I used to be. Okay. Uh but I'm filthy rich compared to my current needs. Which is quite interesting because there were times where I had so much money and I you know had to to to to pour it

[00:21:19]
into my depression. M okay or pour it into places that I was told I need to pour it into and spend days of my week worrying about those places right when in reality I need a this is I think now $14 or something. I have maybe 14 of those a year. Do the math right? And and and you know I still earn shitloads of money that I uh you know I'm not bragging or anything that I don't spend on myself. Okay. spend on so many other people that need it way more than me. And it's an interesting way to find happiness. By the way, did you do that before or did that come after? I did. I I did that quite a bit of my life, but I became quite extreme to the point that, you know, business people like you would think of me as completely mad. You first of all, your first mistake is thinking that I'm a business person. Good. Your second mistake, thinking that I would think that was mad. Yeah. I think I think part of the joy of making money

[00:22:19]
is to give it away. Is to is to share it is to give it away. And it's really funny, you know, I I I um and and to give it away, not for tax purposes. And not to give it away for tax purposes, right? Yeah. The the it's a very funny thing goes back to masculine feminine. It's unavoidable, right? I meet men who have some sort of exit or liquidity event or whatever. The stock price goes up and they find themselves extremely wealthy and they leave their job and you ask them, "What do you do now?" And invariably they say, "I'm an investor." "I'm an investor." Yeah. So you made [ __ ] tons of money and your goal now is to make more money, right? And and I meet women who have some sort of liquidity event. And you ask them, "What do you do?" And they say, "I'm a philanthropist." Now the philanthropists are of course investing and the investors are of course doing philanthropy. But what's so interesting is where they put the priority that one puts the priority on the giving and the other one puts the priority on the on the taking on the and I find that fascinating and and then I talked to very I I had this conversation with

[00:23:19]
somebody who who's who's got more money than any one person needs in multip um and I was talking to him about philanthropy and he he almost got angry at some of my questions. He says, "You don't understand how difficult it is to give money away." And I'm thinking, I don't know. I I don't know. I could do some damage, you know. And I give money away the way I give to um um somebody on the street. I put a a a few dollars in the cup and I go I walk on with my day. I don't worry. Is he going to waste it? Is it going to go to the things that I want it to go to? You take a risk and sometimes it'll go well and sometimes it won't. But it that's it. you it's it's gone. It's it's a portfolio approach. It's a portfolio approach. And whereas I think it's I think it's less than a portfolio approach. It's a trust approach. Whereas this guy I was talking to him and he was saying, well, you know, you can't just give money. You

[00:24:20]
have to put boundaries. You have to how do I know they're going to not going to waste it? And he's treating it like like an investment of some sorts, which is he wants to pour over the the management of the company and make sure that they're not destroying his investment. Yeah. And my attitude is if there's a dance company I want to give to, I give them a bunch of money with no restrictions. I don't think they're going to like run off to Rio and that's it, they're gone. Where the hell are they? They close the dance company and they're living in Fiji, right? I'm fairly confident that if I'm giving to them, they're going to want to make art. Yeah. And if I'm going to give to a, you know, a researcher, they're going to want to find a cure. Like, and I don't need to put restrictions. And I find again the ultra wealthy put all these guard rails and they want reports back. And look, some of it's going to go badly and some of it's going to be mismanaged. 100% true. But on balance, if you're giving to good people who are trying to do good things, they'll do good with the money you give them or at least they'll try really, really hard to do that. It it money is just a symbol. It is what it represents

[00:25:21]
to you, right? And and so you'll find that someone who comes from poverty, for example, uh if he's, you know, $100 million worth those $100 million to him represent a risk, right? And I know many people who are like that, right? If you come from poverty, there is no way you can stop and and tell yourself uh am I now safe? Yeah. Okay. Uh if you come from um you know um um a teenage years where you were the slightly chubby maybe you know bullied a little bit uh child then money to you is in your face. Okay. If you're the one that you know struggled to because you were the geek and you know the bad boys were getting the girls and you know you're you're now a a founder of a tech startup. Money to you represents more girls. Right. Right. Right. And and and the whole idea is that for most people as I said you we struggle to find the to define the

[00:26:21]
context. Yeah. And specifically when when the seasons change, right? So so you know when when you're running and your method of acquiring money is being very precise about every calculation and every cent uh you know you may become a multi-zillionaire and still go to the supermarket and go like, "Oh, they're ripping me off on two cents. I'm going to walk to the next one. Right. While some others would simply say, well, you know what? Uh, two cents is not a big deal for me. But also, by the way, next time I'll go to the next one. Yeah. Right. And while others will simply say, hey, you know what? I don't care. I'm so rich and famous now. I don't care about the the two cents. And is each of those approaches can be judged by us because we're not them. Right? But the trick is to ask yourself where am I? Where where am I in terms of why do I do what I want to do? And I think I I learned this in a in a in my MBA. I had a a professor of um

[00:27:24]
operations management who worked at Chrysler in the 70s back in the day. Yeah. and and he basically was uh you know talking about operations and when the Japanese entered the American market and how uh you know they started to optimize everything like you know instead of the this nut and bolt having four turns to be locked let's make it three turns and you know now we've shaved off a quarter of a second and right and then he basically would would go like but then the Japanese replaced the the the the bolt with a clip and so it it doesn't even take a fraction of a second. Okay. And and and and he started to talk about why were we doing the things that we were doing. Okay. And I think that applies to life in such a massive way. each and every one of us if we really sit down and I do that on Saturdays to observe the seasons of your life that you're not that teenager that was bullied anymore or that you're not that you know young businessman that was

[00:28:26]
you know trying to prove as you were quickly acquiring and learning the threeletter acronyms in the company when you walked in to try and appear that you know more than you don't more than you actually do and and I think that the the trick is you fail you fail to observe that something has changed. This is good. You're talking about going to the cause rather than the symptom, right? I mean, that's that's what this is. I mean, I mean, you you might know the story again, it goes back to the sort of the when the Japanese started sort of overtaking the American market and the Toyota way. And of course, just as a quick aside, the Americans completely misunderstood the Toyota way. First of all, we called it lean. No, no, it's not about efficiency. It's about improvement. Those are not the same things. The jet the Toyota way is about constant improvement always constant improvement and we made it about efficiency and that's why lean doesn't really work in America because we don't really get it. We think it's a calculation. Yeah. And it's about process. It's your as your point. It's about root. And there's this one of the stories that I love is some American car

[00:29:26]
executives went and toured a Japanese car factory. And you know, cars are basically made the same way. And at the end, the Americans were confused because on the American assembly line, there's a guy at the very end with a little rubber mallet who just makes sure the doors Yeah. This guy is not at the end. Right. And there's no mallet guy. And the Americans say, "Where's the guy with the mallet?" And the Japanese are like, "What do you mean the guy with the mallet?" Like, "Well, how do you make sure the doors fit?" And the Japanese say, "We designed them to fit." Like, if they didn't fit, it's not the problem for the end, it's the problem for the beginning. 100%. You know, and I that's exactly what you're talking about, which is when we are struggling with something, we so often treat the symptoms, which is why we throw money at things or why we are become hedonists or what whatever the thing is, right? uh we throw we we we treat the what the superficial and yet and I love this. I want to learn more about this Saturday practice you have where you sit it sounds like you sit and go to the beginning and say what's the root cause of this let me deal with that and maybe

[00:30:27]
that root cause is me you know which is I was whatever it is the chubby kid who was bullied in school I have to deal with my issues it's me 100% so what is your Saturday practice Saturday really matters believe it or not so most Saturdays my uh my alarm clock is set to 2 p.m. Doesn't matter when I wake up, but I am in reflection mode until 2 p.m., right? And and I reflect on a lot of things like simple exercise. Are you alone? Yeah, 100%. So, you're you're a little bit walled off until 2:00. Yeah. So, I'm completely alone. No interaction interaction with time pieces. So, I don't know what time it is. No interaction with the internet, no interaction with news. Uh, you know, I'm not checking my WhatsApp. I'm completely with my little remarkable or paper and pen and you know and basically thinking. Okay. And there are lots of things that I do repetitively. Yeah. Okay. Uh for example, I do a stress uh uh um you know stock taking basically. I write down everything that stressed me the week

[00:31:27]
before and I basically scratch out the [ __ ] that I don't want to scr to to to to stress me the next week. For example, you know, this annoying friend that's constant con constantly negative will probably receive a text saying, "Hey, can we make our interactions a little more positive or maybe make them less?" So you so you're going through the things that are causing you stress and you address them address them one by one, right? And again, you know, we we think that life should be stressful, especially busy ones because, you know, it's a trophy and, you know, and unstressible. My my Well, how else if we don't suffer stress, how else will we become obsessed with our our whoops and our longevity practice? Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And then we measure everything, right? Like you know, you have a I I I used to have all of those uh measurement devices, right? I see you still have No, I don't. No, no, it hasn't been charged for 2 years. Is that true? It's it's it was given to me as a gift and and I it's more sentimental than anything else. But the So you see that's my ring. Yeah, I know. I wear it.

[00:32:27]
And the people from Aura, it's embarrassing, you know, they reached out and said, "Oh, we see Simon wears an Aura ring." And we were like, "No, don't. No, don't don't because you can't help." Exactly. You know, how do I speak about this? It's dead. I don't even know where the charger is. I think so. I I know I know the guys from Whoop very well, right? And I think there is a use to it. Uh uh you know, in terms of learning things about yourself that you may not be able They're fun for a week, but I think they're really fun for the first week and and or or as long as they're needed. Well, as long as they're needed, but then they become notice, you need to notice the context change. It's like, you know, I used to use something called uh my fitness pan obsessively measuring every calorie that I eat, right? After a while, you sort of know that this is a bit too much. This is a bit too little, you know, and after a while, you know, you're much younger than I am, but after a while, you go like, and that little belly, it's cute. I I'm happy with this. Right? And you know and and honestly and you you see

[00:33:27]
once again when I was in my teens 20ies I was obsessed with my shape and right when I was in my 20s I started to be more obsessed with the health of my brain and how much I read every day right and then when I'm in my 50s I'm really obsessed about I'm I'm actually undergoing a season change as we speak right so you know we said Saturday practice stress is part of it but also that reflectction of what do I want? What do I want is so interesting. It goes back to the question I was asking before. Why does it take loss? Why does it take tragedy? Why does it take sadness? Why does it take for us to come to these conclusions? Why can't people in their 20s and 30s live the life? Alli did. Yeah. That's the irony of this god. This magical little child he did. What did he have from six from from as a his his whole life? It sounds like his whole short life. His whole life he

[00:34:28]
lived the life that you have learned to live in your 50s that took tragedy to get you here. Today's episode is brought to you by True Classic. And this ad that you're about to hear isn't really like a normal ad. I sat down with Ryan, their CEO, and we had a conversation about his journey, about the lessons he's learned so that we could use some of those clips to share with you. We call it an ad with authenticity. We have five core pillars as a company. Going fast is literally number one. So, when people come aboard, they already know the deal. It is every single day we're moving and shaking on a million things, juggling a ton of plates. But, um, you know what I've learned? What really works for us in terms of people is that entrepreneurial DNA. When they come in and they start making moves because it's really it's what they know best, right? When you're an entrepreneur, you just get in, you start problem solving, start figuring it out. Those are the people that thrive in our environment. The ones that don't work out come from the legacy apparel brands when they come in and they're

[00:35:28]
just like, "This is chaos, guys. Like, I can't thrive in this." And then other people come in and they don't want anything else but the chaos. They just love it cuz every day is kind of new. So you're you're capturing my favorite thing about the entrepreneurial journey, which is what most people don't realize is that being a small business owner and being an entrepreneur are not the same thing. You know, being a small business owner means you just own a small business. Being an entrepreneur means you're a problem solver. And there are entrepreneurs in corporations, right? It's it's a mindset rather than an ownership, you know? And what people forget is that if you're a creative person, creativity is finding order in chaos. Tragedy is an interesting one. If you you have to, you know, you have to make an an or pain. Pain. I call it a nudge. A nudge. Yeah. A nudge is um you know when you when you you're half American, half British, so you know both, right? in in you know in in America if a if a road is a little uh

[00:36:31]
sloping upwards right and you're walking that road that basically is what needs what America is so celebratory of uh grit right you need to try harder okay you come into the UK and it's all roundabouts right and and and the idea is you get into a roundabout and sometimes you get in and you want to go out on the third exit but life closes that exit. Yeah. Right. And so you keep turning in the roundabout insisting to hit the third exit, but life is telling you, hey, you know, the fourth is open. Can you try that? And you keep saying, no, I'm going to, you know, go around and around and around until the third one is open for me because you're so stubbornly uh uh preoccupied by your current season, right? Life is telling you change of season, new exit, new life, new exploration, new experiences, right? And it's so interesting that when we continue to resist, life goes like

[00:37:31]
fourth. Do you want to go from the fourth like see fourth and you don't. So it notcheses the hell out of you. It gives you it literally shoulders you out through a loss, through pain, through depression, through burnout, through Right. I love all of this. And you're talking about serendipity. You're talking about uh open-mindedness. You're talking about what happens when the plan doesn't go according to plan, which is, by the way, always, you know, uh what's the joke, you know, if you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans. Yeah. Exactly. Um you know what? I I I I'm with you. But I'll go back to the original question, which is why does it take loss, heartache, pain, hurt, age, time to learn these lessons? And we we know that that's not empirical because we knew that we know that Alli didn't have any of those things to come to his magical disposition. Yeah. What was it about this teenager who had such clarity

[00:38:32]
of life and a calmness that was so attractive to people? It made him so loved and lovable. What What is it? Why does it take you see what I'm trying to get to which is how can young people learn the lessons that we that it does like look there's a good you wrote a book about happiness because I have to believe in some part of you you said I don't want other people to go through what I've gone through to learn the lessons I've learned so I'm going to write them down so you can learn the lessons without that there's a there's a but but the question I get most believe it or not is why is your mission 1 billion happy not seven billion happy or 8 billion Interesting question, right? Honestly, because when you really think about it and simply because I find that happiness is a choice. Yeah. Okay. You know, I I can, you know, I can tell you what you can lead the horse to water. You can lead the horse to water, but they're going to have to choose it. And it's it's fool hearty to say everybody and and it's so arrogant to believe that everyone would make that choice. I mean, when I go and speak in France or in

[00:39:32]
Poland, Yeah. I kid you not. The first question I get at the end of the session is well we we we get we get the uh the logic is is works you know but uh why why happiness? And I'm like seriously seriously people go like happiness is a sign of weakness. We're supposed to be here you know fighting it out. Okay. And and I you know I it's but you don't question that. You don't argue with them. It's their choice. I I if you if they don't you shrug your shoulders and say they can't make the choice. Live your life. Yeah. I you know I simply You're not there to convince anybody. Exactly. I simply say well if you know I'm I'm here to teach the technique if you so choose. Right. But that also applies to management and leadership. Yeah. Okay. It also applies to war and peace. Unfortunately, there are there is, you know, for some of us, there is one a an arrogance that what you know is is is true and two a refusal to uh to to to see the world

[00:40:35]
from any other perspective. Okay? And and you know, three, interestingly, the drive to live based on that lack of awareness. Okay? Uh I don't remember who was it, Jack Welsh or someone that used to say uh you know you hire people for three things, their passion and uh and their energy and their uh uh intentions or something like that. If the third is wrong, the first two will kill you. Right? uh you know basically basically if people have the intention to walk into a company and I hired people like that in my life before where their only objective is I'm going to play politics and backstab everyone and go up the ladder right and they're with energy and passion and they are very intelligent and energetic and passionate and and so on they'll use their intelligence and their passion and and you know not benefit anyone at all okay and I think what we humans do in life is we do that to ourselves We we are told at a point in time that a lot of money and a

[00:41:35]
Ferrari is something that you need to have. Yeah. Right. And and some of us, you know, get to question that like Ali, okay, who's very reflective and, you know, who would look at things and go like, I I really don't want a Ferrari. And I I actually, you know, when Ali graduated, I I was a freaking spoiled rich brat. Yeah. And I love that boy. So I said, "Habibi, do you want the car to to to go to university in, you know, I have many pick anyone you want or why don't I buy you a Porsche 911?" Yeah. Right. And I, you know, I I don't regret saying that now because I I matured, right? But I love him and I have the money, so why not? And he would go like, "Papa, but how would my friends feel about that?" Yeah. But I I'm you know, it's not something I'm passionate about, but it's not something that represents me. Maybe if you're so generous, maybe I can take uh one of the 4x4 so I can put the band gear in it. Right. And and it is quite interesting that he had the

[00:42:36]
awareness of who he is. Yeah. Okay. And he had the willingness when I insisted many times for him to drive my fancy cars. Okay. To to to and and and and take his friends along. And then his friends would go like, "Oh my god." and he goes like, I just didn't feel any difference. Right? He had the willingness to to to to sit with himself and say, "This is not what I want from life." And and the season I'm going through now after 58 years of success. Okay? Takes you quite a bit of courage to say, "Yeah, I effed up a few things and there are a few things I've never experienced and there are a few things I'd love to enjoy and there are a few things that I need to learn." Right? and and and unless you sit down and find that, you're going to be the same until you're gone. There's a guest I had on the podcast named Angela Trimbur. We haven't aired her episode yet, but one of the things she talks about is absolutely amazing. She uh had breast

[00:43:37]
cancer. Yeah. and it was treated and and everybody who had breast cancer, the other women who had it who came to and said it it comes back in two years. And so she suddenly had this horrible fear that it's going to come back in two years. And she talks about it as as this kind of magical gift because, you know, when you're told you've got, you know, three months to live, you you you go bucket list. You empty the bank account, you travel the world, you go full bucket list, right? Um, if you're told you have 5 years to live, 10 years to live, you're like, h, I'll put it off. I got I got time. Let's see. Yeah, you know, we'll see. But two years was sort of this magical period because it was not enough that she could be complacent, but it was enough that there was some urgency, but not bucket list urgency, the responsible urgency. Yeah. And she's she's she she just had this assumption that it's going to come back and she's going to die in two years. And she started making choices.

[00:44:37]
The way the way she started living her life is I've only got two years to live. Yeah. What do I want to do this or that? Yeah. And it gave her a confidence and a direction in life. It never came back. But she continues to live her life with this idea that two years. And I thought that was such an amazing number, you know, because people like live your life like it's your last day. No, don't do that. Don't don't don't do that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You you I I I I call that compartment too. You know, live it like it's your last day and live it like you have 10 years to go, right? I It's interesting. Last year was a very challenging year for me. January, I lost my sister and then uh my sister-in-law, but she really is my sister. You know, I met her for the first time when I was a young teen and she really truly was a sister to me. Uh then you know she had a heart attack next to my brother's uh bed who was suffering with cancer. Uh two months later he was cured from cancer but still left our world. He had an

[00:45:37]
unexpected answer and then two months later I lost my mom. H uh which you know you sort of you sort of think that you've now you know become strong enough after losing Ali and then life goes like no hold on I I can I'll prove you wrong I can I can show you I can show you variety right and so I'm sitting with my one of my best friends Alexandra and Alexandra is Serbian so she's very direct okay wonderful young lady who is so honest so kind you know we love each other for, you know, 13 years, friends, and so on. And so I'm sitting there with my philosophical face on saying, "You see how vulnerable life is." And she goes like, "You're going to be fine. You're not going to die." And I'm like, "What?" And she goes like, "You're doing good in the world. The world benefits from you. You're probably going to live a little longer." It's like, Alex, you don't know that. And as I'm trying to explain if you know or you don't with my philosophical face, she says, "But I can

[00:46:37]
guarantee you you have a few, you know, you have very few good years in you." I was like, "What?" And she said, "You know those road trips that you always talk to me about?" Uh, well, I can tell you you have 7 to n years where you can take a long one in whichever car you want. And if you want to take it in a sports car, probably 3 years. So chop chop. very very eye opening. I'll tell you I'll tell you that. I mean, truth is I I I was I I lived so many lives, Simon. It's just scary when you really think about it. But, you know, I'm Egyptian, born and raised in Egypt, public school, public university in Egypt. Uh, you know, I shouldn't have become uh the the the chief business officer of Google X. If you take any mathematical probabilities, it's close to impossible. Mhm. Uh and yet I lived and I lived a rich life and I lived a simple life and I've you know I've I've lived months of my year years of my my life where at the end of the month you know we could

[00:47:39]
barely make ends meet and you know it's it is I lived uh and and somehow in all of those lives if you if you remember the only thing that you we started the conversation with was when life was interestingly engaging. I don't want to call it challenging. It's interestingly engaging where you sit down and you go like, how can I make this go the furthest for me and those that I love? Okay. And and I think the challenge is with experience over the years, fewer and fewer and fewer and fewer things stress you. Fewer and fewer and fewer things challenge you. Okay? You know, just because you've been you it's familiar. you you've learned it, right? Yeah. Like like oh this again I know this one. I I have seen this one uh you know this one is different but it's the same fabric. At least I know how to manage my emotions about it and so on and so forth. Yeah.

[00:48:39]
And and the and the trick is when it doesn't become challenges in challenging you start to get into those mind generated uh um uh you know depression uh causing right not chemical it's sort of selfimposed. Yeah. It's it's it's incessant mind racing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and and your incessant thoughts start to take you into um you know all those sorts of scenarios that actually have no bound anymore because they're not even bound by the physical rules anymore, right? And and and it and that that kind of in of experience is what I call a problem of privilege, right? And and when you have problems of privilege, that actually is the sign that tells you, hold on, you know, life is actually really good. Yeah. I am really blessed. What do I want with my life? What what do I want the next 5 years to look like? Do I want to do more of the same, get

[00:49:40]
more of the same green back that I don't even know it's just sitting in the bank somewhere that I will never spend just to tell my friends that I made another deal? Okay. Do I want to give it away to people and see the joy? Uh I mean just for everyone listening to us, huh? Your coffee can feed a family in Africa, right? I'm not talking about the very famous and rich who spend, you know, a few hundred,000 on their vacation, right? That few hundred,000 can save a village in Africa. And yes, I know actually one of the things I've started to see recently uh you know I know that it's actually very difficult for us to imagine that those in Africa are humans too or those in the Middle East are humans too or those in or you Russia Ukraine are humans humans too right and and because we are so used to our own life getting into our cars in the morning and just going through what we believe is life okay uh and and one of the things I've started to see that is really thrilling my part Mhm. is finally

[00:50:43]
the Middle East is starting to show beautiful dances and music instead of angry save us. Okay. So, in the you know, I don't know if you've seen in the last few days, uh the Lebanese posts are all about the the rockets flying overhead while they're dancing in parties and laughing and, you know, saying life is is amazing, right? uh they've been bombed themselves a few days back and they're like yeah it's you know some of us are lost some of us are not and we will live right and I think that idea of can we look at each other and say honestly another Ferrari is not going to be a big deal I I but we're we're still circling the wagons here which is that they it's they have been bummed and they have had to face their own mortality for them to say but let us let us dance right and so again I'm going back. And maybe the answer is no, right? Maybe the answer is you can learn some from reading a book. You can learn some from listening to a podcast. Maybe a friend will say something to you that will give

[00:51:43]
you a new perspective that'll but but maybe you have to be punched in the face. All I can guarantee you is if you don't if you don't wait until you're punched in the face and you change. Yeah. You may not be punched in the face. You may not be punched in the face. So it's it's like insurance. Yeah. So So I I I remember that I wanted to write Soul for Happy, my first book. I wanted to write it in 2011. Okay. But but I was chief business officer of Google. Yeah. And you know I I sit down and I start writing on a flight and then I go I I land on the other side and I have all of those deals and all of those clients and all of those meetings and all. Right. And I delay it and delay it and delay it and life keeps saying write it. It's a good book. Write it. It's a good book. Write it. It's a good book. Until I, you know, I don't I'm circling the roundabout. So it goes like okay, you know what? Ali's leaving. You know, now write the book now. Now write the freaking book. Yeah. Right. What else do you need? Yeah. And and and I you know I know for a fact in my heart that maybe if I had written it, he wouldn't have had to leave. Okay. Because you wouldn't have had to learn the lesson. Because

[00:52:43]
you wouldn't have and and and that's very arrogant by the way because it's his life, not mine. But I can I can tell you that again it's quite complicated. I've I've had a very uh in enlightening experience when I was 26. I had a near-death experience, right? went all the way through the same exact description that I've never read before, but went all the way through the tunnel, if you want, the light. Okay. Uh found myself in that peace and tranquility and truly and and you know, as as as the the the kind souls as they describe in near-death experiences were walking in my direction. I was like, "Yeah, right." They brought me back and I was really angry with the doctor. Like I was really like, "Why? this is so lovely over there, right? Uh and and and you know, it seems to me in my unproven philosophy from that experience that we sort of always all of us get asked if it's time to leave. But you didn't learn your lesson. I uh something about me changed,

[00:53:45]
but I didn't learn my lesson, right? Can you share some of the things that you've learned about this happiness practice that we that people can implement? Look, happiness to me is I I like the I I mean I think look you you said it which is happiness is a choice if so number one is you have to choose to that you want to be happy right so happiness is a choice and happiness is your default setting is the most important to uh assumptions if you want to uh look at them that way so so understand this every child is born happy right uh so your your your default operating system is happy of course you know some children may be exposed to violence when they are in the womb so So, but if if you're all things being equal, yeah, exactly. If you're just coming out of the box um you know, unboxing a child, the child's default setting is happy, right? It it cries when it has any reason to cry, right? Okay. Feed it and it will go back to happy, you know, playing with their toes, looking at the

[00:54:45]
ceiling, and that's it, right? Uh you were that child too. And then and then as you went on through life I do you remember Super [ __ ] Of course. Oh yeah. English. Oh I know Super [ __ ] Yeah. So So Breakfast in America is one of the great alltime songs. 100%. 100%. And and Roger Hutchson is is an amazing artist. So So they they had the logical song. Remember the logical song? When I was young it seemed that life was so When I was young it seemed like life was so There you go. Yeah. and and and so basically when in my in the depths of my depression years I'm sitting in a cafe in Seattle. I remember vividly I was working at Microsoft at the time and uh and you know must have been on a Walkman or like a discman or something and I'm listening and then this song comes along and comes on and it and it says when I was young it seemed that life was so wonderful all the birds on the trees were singing so happily uh you know and then they sent me away to teach me how

[00:55:47]
to be sensible, logical, responsible, practical, cynical, critical and so on. Right? And and that's the story of your life, right? The basically life as a child when you don't overthink things, you're happy. Yeah. Okay. And then you start to become cynical and critical and you sort of learn to succeed in life. And we humans are very capable. You tell me the target is to succeed, they go like, "Yep, absolutely." And most of us remember that, uh, that you probably into your 20ies, you were not that upset with anything. this generation is because of the amount of of of negativity we pour on them. So, so if you understand that your default setting is happy, then there is nothing you need to bring from outside you to find happiness. You need to remove [ __ ] to be happy. Okay. And and and that negation strategy is quite an interesting one. So, Oh, that's good. Yeah. So I'm I I'm sitting there uh I you know I basically take the rest

[00:56:47]
of the day off and I start to look back at the things that you know what I I I'm like yeah when I was young it seemed that life was so wonderful. So, so I keep going back. When I was 18, I was happy. When I was 16, I was happy. When I was four, I was happy. When I was two, I was happy, right? There were things that upset that happiness, but I went back to But this goes back to I love this, right? And this is so actionable. I love this, which is it's the reverse of of what most people do, which is they make a list of the things that they think will bring them happiness. But what you do this this is you make the list of the things that are causing you stress and you go about removing them. You remove the it's a removal process, not an adding process. And there is a reason for that. So good. There is a reason for that. Okay. Nothing ever from outside you, this is, you know, rule number two or assumption number two. Huh? Uh nothing from outside you will bring you happiness. Why? Because nothing has an inherent value of happiness within it. Right. Right. Take anything in in life, you know, rain. Okay. Rain cannot make you happy or unhappy. Right. Right. If it's your

[00:57:48]
exgirlfriend's wedding, it makes you happy. There's no there's no such thing as bad weather. Just inappropriate clothing. Oh, yeah. No. And no in inappropriate intention desires, right? So if you know if you if you want uh a classic car, I love to restore classics and I lose money on them all the time. I'm you know, if you want a classic car to make money on it, yeah, you're going to be unhappy all the time. If you want a classic car because you love love the art of restoring it, you'll be happy, right? If you if you if you want a classic car because you want to drive all the time without breaking, you'll be unhappy, right? And and and and everything else. If you want rain, rain makes you happy. Yeah. If you don't want rain, rain makes you unhappy. So mathematically, that means the equation is not one parameter. It's not what life gives you. Okay? It's what life gives you in comparison to what you want life to give you. Right? And so I wrote that in solve for happy very clear straightforward. I said your happiness

[00:58:48]
is equal to or greater than the difference between the events of your life and your expectations of how life should be. Say that again slowly. Your happiness is equal to or greater than the difference between the events of your life. Yeah. Or or or more accurately your perception of the events of your life. Yeah. And your hopes and desires and wishes of how life should be. So good. Right. Now take that and apply it to every moment in your life you felt unhappy. Yeah. Okay. It wasn't because life was wrong. It was because life was not what you wanted to be. You know what that is? That's a six-year-old behavior. Okay. It's like, "Mommy, I want ice cream." Right? It's not the right time for ice cream. Mommy doesn't have the time or you didn't have lunch yet or whatever. Right? But you want ice cream. And for some reason when you cried enough as a child, when you when you were miserable enough as a child, ice cream showed up or mommy tapped you on the back and said, "Come on, baby." Right? And we continue to do this

[00:59:50]
somehow expecting that life when we are upset is going to go like, "Yeah, okay fine. Here's your ice cream." Right? Now, here's the trick. Life doesn't give a [ __ ] about you. Okay? Yeah, life simply is there to say look there will be a multip you know a series of events some of them are easy some of them are tough some of them are enjoyable some of them you you learn from okay and it's your choice how to react to every one of them it's your it's your choice to uh to choose your perception of the event and it's your choice to set your expectations realistically so you get stuck in traffic you can choose a perception that says I hate This this is annoying. This is wasting two of my precious moments. Okay, I will be late to my event. Everything is is is you know is is miserable. Or you can say, "Oh my god, I'm in a car. Oh my god, I'm in a city. Oh my god, there are no bombs on top of me. Oh my god, I'm not starving to death. Oh my god, I'm,

[01:00:51]
you know, I am this is the worst thing that's happening to me. Life is good." 100%. Right. 100%. if this is the worst that's happening to me. Okay, you know, it's it's a nice little it's a it's a hack because I know that when things go wrong for me, like somebody I'm in a restaurant, they bring me the wrong meal. I mean, you know, whatever it is, stupid [ __ ] right? I know like, you know, and because we're all [ __ ] to some degree, you know, the the the you the blood starts to boil over stupid stuff. And I say out loud to the person who's very often apologetic or something, don't worry, you know, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. And I always say, if this is the worst thing that happens to me all week, I'm way ahead of the game. You know, your hotel room is not ready. I mean, who gives a [ __ ] right? The stuff that drives us nuts, saying it out loud to someone, it's not really for them. It's for you. If this is the worst thing that happens to me all week, I'm ahead of the game, you know? And and and and immediately immediately you realize and by the way and by the way it is it is a it's a it's a it's a very um actionable meaning uh you know if you

[01:01:52]
hear your brain saying this is [ __ ] Yeah. Okay. Ask your this is by the way your brain's tendency because your brain is a survival machine. We we use it to invent iPhones, right? But but it is first and foremost a survival machine. It wants to know what's wrong with life so that it can work on it, right? Because what's wrong is what makes you unsafe, right? So when your brain tells you as per its nature, you know this uh uh uh um you know the the traffic is [ __ ] Okay, ask it and say what's good about the traffic, right? What is good about this? And it will comply first it will say uh yeah and London taxis are annoying. Now I asked you what is good about this? Yeah. Okay. And if you insist so my my practices I used to I can listen to Super [ __ ] Exactly. A lot of a lot of different or I can sing it in my head. My practice used to be, you know, for every negative thing that my brain gives me. Yeah. Okay. It is obliged to give me a good one. So you play the game. It's like okay, it's a

[01:02:52]
zero sum. If you're giving me negative, I want positive. Play 100%. Now, but then I realized that my brain is quite a coward, right? So I started to for every negative thing that it gives me asking for nine nine good. Yeah. But because that's the nature of life. By the way, if you take the mathematics of life, yeah, how often do we suffer earthquakes as compared to how often do we walk on solid grounds, right? Okay. How often do you get sick as compared to, you know, unfortunately some of us are maybe chronically sick for a long time, but for the majority of humanity, right? How long how often are we sick as compared to how often are we are are we healthy? Right. Right. In reality, it's not even 1 to nine. It's one to probably 99, right? Okay. And and then that's irrelevant, by the way, which uh strata of the society you're in. Yeah. That's everyone. Okay. It's everyone. If you're if I I'll tell you a very interesting thought process to understand. If if

[01:03:52]
life is a surviv is all about a survival approach, huh? And you're able to sit in that car and tell yourself uh you know uh um uh I'm going to be late for my event, so a future event. and and uh and and torture yourself with it or sit in that car and say I'm stupid to live in this city or I should have left 10 minutes earlier. So a past event to torture yourself with. You know what that means? It means from a survival mechanism point of view, there is no tiger attacking you. Yeah. Okay. Because if there was an actual threat, if there was actually something wrong with this moment, that in itself would take your mind away from all of those stupid thoughts. You would focus on the tiger. So, so the fact that you're thinking those negative thoughts is in itself evidence that now is right right now is okay. How do little things factor in cuz I know one of the things that I do is I and I do this consciously which is I try and I try and pay attention to little things and I and it's to the point now

[01:04:53]
where it's almost automatic and when I say little things I mean like you have no idea how small, right? Like making breakfast in the morning, right? the the sounds of putting the coffee in the coffee pot and filling up the jug and putting it on the coffee machine and the clinks and the clanks and the drags and the and the swishes. I'm really present and attuned that I'm not just going through the motions of making coffee, but I'm paying attention as if it's a choreography as if it's a piece of dance. listening found the secret to life and and these I mean I'm making coffee in the morning something I do every single day and I find joy in the s not every day because then it'll become mundane right because I'm trying to avoid the mundane but every now and then I'll pay so much attention and I smile it I smile you have found the secret to life do do you have the same coffee every day no I never have I never do that you mix it up yeah so every morning before I make coffee I spend 10 minutes trying to feel what I feel today and accordingly which coffee I want. I make

[01:05:54]
coffee. I don't I have the same coffee every day. I have optimism coffee because I love it. Uh and I made it. Um but I uh um I make it differently. There you go. So it'll be the same coffee, but sometimes I'll put it in the drip coffee. Sometimes I'll sort of let it. Sometimes I'll So I have different beans a cafe press. Yeah. And I don't know why it tastes slightly different. It does. But but sometimes it's just the thing that I feel like doing 100%. Now so so so I I I say you found the secret to life. Why? Because um think about it this way. Huh? We we said now is always amazing. The problem with our most of our unhappiness comes from that incessant thinking. Yeah. Okay. That idea of living in the past or the future. Now there's an interesting exercise people need to think about. uh take any emotion and and it's a very good exercise to reflect on with yourself. Take any emotion. You feel the

[01:06:55]
emotion right now but the emotion has a temporal anchor. Right? The anchor regret for example is anchored in the past. It's about something that happened in the past. Right? Uh fear or anxiety is about anchored in the future. Right? If you write them all down, you'll find that the majority of the emotions that make you feel negative are anchored in the past and the future. Right? And the majority of the emotions that make you feel positive are in the present. Right. Right. Calm is in the present. You know, excitement is in the present and so on and so forth. Right. Right. Now, it's quite interesting because past and future don't exist. Right. Past and future are uh uh uh neural constructs that you create within your own head. They you cannot give them life unless you create them inside your own head. Okay? When yesterday happened, you called it you called it today. When tomorrow eventually happens, you're going to call it today. You're always in present now. Right now, here's the trick. The trick is if you get yourself to that present

[01:07:57]
to be here and now, here and now, most of the time there's absolutely nothing wrong. Unless you're in a war zone, unless you have a chronic pain, unless you have a, you know, you're going through a tough period of your time physically uh or whatever, most of the time there's nothing wrong. And even in those periods there's moments of rest and respit 100%. Okay? And and I'll come to that in a minute. But but think about it this way. Now is always amazing. The idea of bringing yourself to the now is always bringing yourself away from the incessant thinking that's creating madness within your head. It's it's really important also which is you're not saying this takes uh you know we're not you're not saying you need a meditation practice and you're not even advocating that somebody spend every Saturday until 2 p.m. you know, you're not advocating any of that. You know, I mean, it help. It's helpful. Meditation is like all of these things are are helpful, but for anybody who rolls their eyes and be like, "Gh, I don't have time to." You don't. It's okay. It's okay. It's fine. Look, if if you don't have time, then you probably need the meditation to learn to do it, right? But

[01:08:57]
but but the but the trick is this that and and I, you know, because of my work, many of the top meditation teachers and Buddhist monks and so on are my friends, right? And they will always tell you meditation is like going to the gym. It's not like carrying something heavy. This is you prepare by going to the gym so that your mind learns how to focus on the present moment. Yeah. But meditation is not the objective in itself. It's the practice. It's the practice. Right. But but here's the trick. Have you ever felt that, oh [ __ ] it's June, right? Yeah. Right. Like and then we say, my god, this year is going fast. My god, my god, it's nearly over. Have you ever thought why that is? I guess cuz I'm too busy. Yeah, correct. You're no too busy is is a very interesting explanation. So I found and I did that 2018 was I when I was when I started to see this and I apply it and I can guarantee you the last seven years of my life have been way longer than the previous 51 because you're because the

[01:09:57]
because you have to understand that you're slowing down. You're only aware of the time you live and if your if your day is filled with a calendar that's back to back to back to back and you're always in and the day is over and you're always in your head. So even even if your day is filled with a calendar that's back to back but this conversation I will remember forever, right? Because I'm fully present in it. I'm listening to you. You're contributing. I you're listening to me. You know the the the sensations of being a little hot outside but we're still okay. And right you if you completely bring yourself to this time continues to stretch. So every minute that you live fully okay is a minute that registers as a moment of life. Every minute you you live inside your head is a moment you'll never remember. One of the things that's really helped me is and it took a while to shed the guilt of of wanting time to myself, right? because we're in a hyperproductive, you know, you got to if you're not using your time to make something, do something, achieve

[01:10:57]
something, hit some sort of then you're a loser, right? And uh and I would sometimes wake up pretty early on a weekend and I would sit in bed till noon and I'm I mean like so I maybe woke up at 8. So I and I'm talking about like maybe I read the newspaper, maybe I played did the crossword puzzle, played some games, maybe I made a phone call. I would sometimes go downstairs, get a cup of coffee, and get back into bed. And when people be like, "What did you do to today?" Because it was like two o'clock and I met somebody for, you know, for for brunch or something. Um I'm like I And I was I'd be like, "Uh, I sat in bed." And they're like, "What a waste of a day." They would say to me, "Seriously, I know." And um um and then I got to the point and I would have this guilt and I got to the point where I was like, "You know what? It's my life. It's my morning. It's my weekend. I'm allowed to do whatever I want. And if I choose to sit in bed all morning and do something completely that the world would judge as unproductive, so be it. And I gotta tell you, I love

[01:11:58]
sitting in bed doing nothing all morning. I I love I love it. I I'll give you And so what or I could go do something, but it's like my activity is to be in bed. So yeah, what is that song? Today I'm just not doing anything. Right. the the the the the activity of doing the nothing. Well, where nothing is the thing. Yeah. So, I I do 40 days of silence every year. So, I I just go somewhere and all in a row. All in a row. All one because I could probably do 40 days of silence if you add it up my whole life. So, amortized over the course of my life. I've definitely I dare you. I dare I dare you if you try it. Don't Don't do the monk thing. Don't go to a monastery where they wake you up at 4:00 a.m. in the morning. I go to a beautiful nature place, you know, a converted barn somewhere in, you know, wherever, right? And uh I'm not very strict about it. I listen to music. I don't listen to lyrics, right? I don't follow up on the internet and I allow myself paper and pen and I write. Okay? Believe it or not

[01:13:00]
or not, almost every single year I've done the whole 40 days, I wrote at least seven chapters of a book. Okay? And it happens in a very unusual way. the first week. But most people can't take 40 days off of life. Everyone can. No, everyone can. Everyone can, but not in the same They could take a weekend, maybe. No, ex was going to say not in the same uh uh um consecutive way. Right. So So I, you know, people almost always dare me and say, "I'm so busy." Okay. I'm really sorry. I'm so busy. And I go like, "But court play is going to be available next week. Do you want tickets?" And they'll go like, "Yep, totally. No problem whatsoever. Okay. It goes back to intention like Yeah. I have no time until I want to make time. Exactly. 100%. Okay. So, what you're saying is find a reasonable amount of time that is reasonable for whatever the life. So, I I suggest to people I suggest to people what I call the mini silent retreats, which is my Saturdays. Okay. You you set you set your alarm until to 2 or 3 p.m.

[01:14:00]
and you have a half a day to yourself. Totally legit. Because that scares a lot of people to hear I have to be quiet and talk not engage with anybody. Yeah. The minute you do that, you engage with who? Your brain. And your brain attacks you. Right. And the whole idea is, so I I call it meet Becky. So So one of one of my famous techniques is I I call my brain a third a third party name. Yeah. Right. So Becky was the most annoying girl in school, right? So So literally, you know, you know those people that walk to you all the time and just say annoying things and then walk away with no solutions. Yeah. Right. That's your brain. It's like it's just ah by the way, you're fat. Why brain? Why did you say this? Right. And and the trick here is when you restrict Becky, when you restrict your brain, your brain pushes harder. It's a bit like that friend that text you at 7 7:00 a.m. and and goes like, "Hey, I have this great idea. Call me and and you're asleep at 7, right?" Or you're doing something and then by 900 a.m. they've texted you 60

[01:15:01]
times. Yeah. And you go like, "Hey, I'm walking to a meeting. Can I text you back at 10:30?" Yeah. and they'll say, "Yeah, fine. No problem whatsoever." That's your brain. So, what I do is I go to my brain and I go like, "Hey, by the way, part of Saturday, tell me all the [ __ ] that's going on. Tell me everything that's going on up there." I just love this practice. I I've tried it in a mini way. So, I heard Matt Walker, who's the sleep expert. Yeah. And when he talks about cuz I I struggle with my brain racing at like my I'm totally relaxed, not thinking about anything. the minute I turn out the lights and my head is on the pillow. Okay, game on. Right. Yeah. And I can lie awake for hours try and and just over and over and I know like don't worry, you'll deal with this tomorrow. You can't fix it now. It doesn't matter. I can't turn it off. Then I heard him say and I tried it which is just write it down. Exactly. And and so like I keep a little red flashlight that next to my bed so I don't ruin my night vision and I have a little pad and pen and all of the thoughts whatever they are I just write

[01:16:01]
them down and it is incredible how well it works. It all just stops. It all just stops and and I even like tried to trick myself where I wrote them down then I tried to force myself to think of those same things again and it couldn't. The brain couldn't do it the minute they were written down and I realized it's spinning not because I'm actually thinking. It's spinning because it wants to me to remember these things. But if I write them down, it it says, "I'm good. Go ahead and go ahead and get I go I go even further when when And so the fact that you're doing this Yeah. I've done it in a mini practice. You're doing a much larger. It It works so well. Yeah. And and it's funny. Yeah. So So So there are two rules to meet Becky. Rule number one is you take every thought that your brain tells you. Okay. You write it down and you dismiss it. Basically you you know hey um uh you you know you sit down and you go like okay go ahead tell me and it will say yeah I don't believe that thing that Simon said and you go like okay you don't believe this that Simon said what else and you keep asking the question what else with one rule

[01:17:03]
that no idea is repeated twice okay so you know 25 ideas later your brain goes and by the way I don't agree with what Simon said brain you said that before right right and I guarantee you so I do I Normally do that practice for 20 minutes again on a timer. Timers are very useful to tell you not just when something ends but by when it will end so that you don't end it before. Oh, you have you have to fill the time. You have to fill the time. So you can set a timer of like 20 30 minutes and and you're not getting up. I do that when I write. So when I write, I write in 44 minutes and 11 second sessions. I don't know why, but I love those numbers. And so I set 44 minutes on my timer and as long as I as the the alarm didn't go off, I will not get up even if I'm not writing a single. So right, I understand that. It's a time to tell you to stop. It's also a time to tell you when not that you have to keep going. Keep going. Right. So So you set your timer to 20 minutes and you and you get your brain to tell you, hey uh uh I don't like what

[01:18:03]
Simon said. I like what Jackie said. I you know, you're fat. Uh you're you're short. Whatever. Okay? And it keeps telling you that stuff. And you just take it one by one until it starts up to repeat itself. So when you call it out on repeating itself, I guarantee you just try it once normally around minute 11 or so. You go like, "So what else?" And your brain goes like, "Um, that's it really." And it completely runs out of ideas. Okay? I promise you this is as close to heaven as you'll ever get. Total silence. It's not you're trying to stop your brain through meditation. It's got nothing else. It said everything and you have now a rule that it cannot say them again. Right. Okay. My god, it is heaven. Right. Oh, I'm doing it. Yeah. And and then suddenly a few minutes later, it starts to tell you nice things like, "Ah, that's really nice. We should do it's run out of crap." So ran out of crap. It basically is struggling for your attention, okay? And you're not doing

[01:19:03]
anything about its thoughts. So it's afraid you're going to die. So it just constantly tries to tell you, give me more of that. Okay? Give me more air time. Give me more attention. Give me I'm telling you, you know, they're going to kill all of us. Oh, fine. They are going to kill all of us. Okay. Now, the rest of the practice is actually quite interesting. So, I normally spend the next 20 minutes looking at what I wrote down and you will laugh out loud. Like literally, you look at some of those and go like, that is ridiculous. Like, how can you even think this? And you, you know, you visibly scratch it out. And so you get the dopamine hit of accomplishment by scratching out the negativity as well. And and also you remind your brain so that when it brings it up again, you go like, "But we scratched that one out." Right. Right. And then the ones that you need to do something about, put an action plan next to it. Right. And somehow that one Yeah. That one practice if you do that once every Saturday, I love this. It really changes everything. I'm doing it. Yeah. 100%. I'm doing it. But you see, again, it goes back to that whole I'll be in bed all morning, so I got I got plenty

[01:20:03]
of time to do it. But but but but what what I was trying to say with my silent retreats is really interesting, huh? You become more productive with silence sometimes. Yeah. You become more productive by doing nothing sometimes. Okay. Well, I also I I I learned the the the the value of negative space and as a creative person. Exactly. But this is everybody. It's not just creative people. everybody, which is, you know, I I learned this a million years ago, which is our conscious brains have access to the equivalent of about 3 ft of information around us, and our subconscious brains have the equivalent um have access to the equivalent of about 11 acres of information around us. So, when we engage our rational brains, when we when weigh the pros and cons, when we access our expertise and we quote unquote think about a problem, we got 3 ft of information. Yeah. But when you quote unquote let go, your mind wanders. Now, you're not quote unquote thinking, but your mind is ruminating. Your subconscious brain is ruminating, which is why we find solutions in the shower, when we go for a run, when we're driving in the car, when we go for a walk, and you're not actively thinking you're and so the value of the

[01:21:03]
brainstorming session is not to solve the problem, it's to ask the question. Correct? And so, but the problem is is we've eliminated negative space. So, when you're sitting on the subway going to work, I'm I'm on the phone. Correct? When I'm sitting on the toilet, I'm on the phone. Correct. when I'm walking from here to there I want to see but yes I mean but we're all guilty of it right when one is sitting on the toilet it's not me like I mean I and I catch myself doing it I'm walking from here to there or down the street and I'm looking down and it occurred to me just today coming to the studio I like walked a full block without looking up I'm like I could have walked into a freaking pole and I wouldn't have known you know but the point is is is I I now work to add negative space so I'll put in my calendar do nothing I used to have that that was well very well known about me in Google X because we had all of our offices were glass basically. Yeah. So people would walk by me and I'm sitting in that glass cube, no phone, nothing on the screen, not talking to anyone. And do nothing doesn't literally mean do nothing. It's I could go for a walk. I

[01:22:03]
could watch a movie. Exactly. I can watch TV. The point is is it's it's scheduled quote unquote unproductive time as other people would define productivity. Yeah. This is the most productive. So, and what I'm just allowing my brain to do is wonder. 100%. W A and WO, you know, to wonder and to wonder 100%. You know, and because I as a as a person who who loves ideas, I won't have ideas if I'm thinking the whole time and and and and there are and there are Exactly. So, I I as a creative person, which is ironic. Okay. As a creative, so I I finished Google X 2018. Soul for Happy is now an international bestseller. Like by then it was half a million copies or something amazing and and and now I'm like running my 1 billion happy mission literally like an executive of course but that's not a good thing is it it's not at all right and then someday some sometime in 2019 I text my team and I go like guys the season has changed right I'm not an executive anymore I'm now a creative person that wakes up frequently at 3:00

[01:23:04]
a.m. inspired to write something. But this is interesting, right? Which is which is you're now on the on the the the happiness mission except you're treating it like an executive. And I know people who, you know, they run businesses about, you know, meditation or and yet they're stressed out. And like the irony of all of these people I keep meeting who have these missions and yet they are feeling the opposite of what they're espousing. Yeah. And so how can you run your business more like a philosophical practice and rather like than a business because you yourself know it's a it's an interesting thought which is move which moves the macro target to a micro target. Think about this huh I can only do the absolute best that I can do every day and if I directionally know where I'm heading by adding those days up I'll get as far as I can. So, can I push you a little bit? Of course. What if there's no target? There is no target. There is an

[01:24:05]
inspiration. Aspiration meaning 1 billion happy. I'm not going to I'm never going to make it. And you're not really counting because there's no way to count. There are ways to count because the mission is actually determined very clearly. And we don't we're not measuring video views. We would have achieved a billion happy a long time ago. We're measuring people that get the message and then take an action. An action that is you can't calculate that number. You can estimate, right? You can they either take an action by going and watching other videos. So I convinced you that you need to be happy so you start to look for other videos about happiness. Or you take an action by watching the video and forwarding it. So you believe others will be happy, right? Not not great, right? I mean forwarding it, boy, this guy's an idiot and you calculated that as a win. May maybe I I I I did I did not go to that level of integrity and probably quite a few of them. Uh but but but here's the trick. I don't measure that anymore. Yeah. Why? Because for a fact I know that I'm not going to get to a billion happy, but that a billion happy might happen after I die. Yeah.

[01:25:06]
Right. And the trick here is what? If I can generate one more piece of content today or I can if I can and it's about momentum, not about targets. Exactly. It's about constantly moving in the right direction at the best of your capabilities. I mean, there's so many little things that I've been learning of. So, you know, I think of business more like exercise than I do like a project. Exactly. You know, which is you trust in the process and you'll get into shape. Just keep just keep doing it and you'll get into shape. Don't worry about it. 100% 100%. And you may get you may get into shape a week later and it might be quick, it might be slow and sometimes you go and sometimes it goes in, but you just you just keep your head down and keep doing the thing, you know, and John Burke who was on our was a guest who's the CEO of Trek Bicycles, he talks about Nick Sabin's just play to play the play to perfection. Yeah. just do the thing you've been practicing and do it really well and the score will take care of itself and and what you need to do is occasionally frequently if you can sit down and review the direction am I doing this right you know am I putting my effort that's it right so for example I

[01:26:07]
the score the score to me is something that you look up every now and then as you said directionally it's like am I heading it's like the periscope yeah you know because if a submarine's under the under the ocean and the captain says go do north a submarine doesn't go do north it zigzags correct but every now and then they have to look at some sort of navigational aid or pop up and with a periscope and be like, "Yeah, we're basically on course. Keep going." And and by the way, ask the captain if North is still where we want to go. Right. And and I think that's the trick. Like you take my social media presence, for example. Yeah. At at the beginning, I'm a very introverted person. I don't want to be seen on social media, ignored it completely. Then someone said, "You're never going to achieve anything unless you're on social media." So, I put my head behind it and I get to a few hundred thousand followers and then suddenly I realize I really hate this [ __ ] Okay? And honestly and and I'm you know I'm very open with myself. I hate this [ __ ] Yeah. Okay. And so if I do this and it drains me. Yeah. That's not good for the mission. So I realized at the point in time around 2020 I said look I'm going to be on Simon's platform. Yeah. Okay. And interestingly

[01:27:08]
I have maybe total of 400,000 followers on all platforms. Okay. Big number by the way. I should celebrate, but I I get tens of millions of videos, video views on your platform on, you know, Stevens. I know you met Stephen, right? You know, on others and I'm there delivering the message, not to my credit, not to my like I'm not going to make ad monies on it, but I'm never I was never about ad monies anyway. Sure. Okay. And I think that constant change of direction, telling yourself, I'm putting half a day, you know, of every day behind social media. I'm going to change that. The difference is you've moved from being target driven to mission driven. That's a massive difference. I mean that's basically what's happened. But but shouldn't we all be? Uh I mean I Yes. That is the kind of made a career out of that. 100%. That is so mindboggling that people think that by focusing on making a little more money next month, you're going to be successful. Larry Page used to call it the the the

[01:28:09]
Yeah. Yeah. The toothbrush test. And you would go to Larry and you would go like, "Look, if you if you find the problem and solve it really well and keep doing it over and over and over, you're going to make a lot of money. That's this it's the it's not making money that is the target or it's not the promotion that's the target. It's it's I am doing the absolute best I can and it's eventually going to it'll pay out." Yeah. Yeah. Bo, I could talk to you forever. Um, but we have to I have to stop, which is a shame. Can let's go let's go for lunch or something. the I wish I had got to meet Ally. Oh, thank you. You have by saying that uh send him a happy wish, please. You would have loved him, honestly. I mean, I'm struck by a 16-year-old getting that tattoo. I'm struck by a teenager saying, "I don't want the thing." I'm struck by uh I think you knew all the lessons before

[01:29:10]
he left this earth and it they he already taught you everything before it sounds like it's quite weird actually. So you we used to play video games together and Ali of course was legendary. I'm now quite serious, but at the time I was sort of like heroic if you want. And uh and he would teach me. He would go like, "No, no, no, no, no, dude. You don't do you know that trick and so on." But then sometimes during a mission, Ali would go, you know, sometimes you're in a mission and it's so difficult that one of us has to walk in, you know, kill 80% of the enemies but get shot and then the other one, the silly one, would walk in and do the easy job. I think that's exactly what happened. He came, he taught me and then uh at a point in time he had to leave for the mission to actually be finished. And uh sometimes I think about how you

[01:30:10]
know when you asked me at the very beginning you said is uh you know you said this tragic loss and I and I said I'm not sure I can call it a loss anymore because there was a point in time where I realized that if you knew Ali and you know if he was walking into the intensive care room or the operating room or whatever and I had told him Ali by the way if you choose to live. We will have amazing times together. If you choose to die, 50 million people will find happiness. He would have said, "Kill me right now." And with the certainty that both of us are meeting again, I have to say this is been a hell of a game. Uh, one that's worthwhile if you ask me. We have a word in English for the person who runs in to take care of 80% of it that needs to be done knowing that the person gets the glory on the other end, you know, who finishes the mission. We have a word for the for the hero. Oh, absolutely. [ __ ] that. Yes.

[01:31:13]
Absolutely. Abs unsung. I I I hope to get no credit at all. As a matter of fact, one one billion happy as the as the we're a tiny team, four people. Uh the the the mission is statement is very clear. We want to get a million people to champion a billion happy. Yeah. I want to spend every dollar I've ever earned and then we want to be completely forgotten. Yeah. Okay. Which I think is the most difficult part of the of the strategy if you ask me. And this is why we're trying not to be on our own social media, trying to be everywhere else. And and imagine if I finish my life a billionaire. Imagine if Ali Ali's already finished his life a millionaire. Multi-millionaire. Unbelievable. Well, thanks for coming on. I so appreciate it. Thanks for having me. It's wonderful to meet you. Finally. Bit of optimism is brought to you by the Optimism Company and is lovingly produced by our team Lindseay Garbinius, David Jaw, and Devon Johnson. If I was

[01:32:14]
able to give you any kind of insight or some inspiration or made you smile, please subscribe wherever you enjoy listening to podcasts for more. And if you're trying to get answers to a problem at work or want to advance a dream, maybe I can help. Simply go to simonsynic.com. Until then, take care of yourself. Take care of each other.