
[00:00:00]
any life hacks that you have that you use to write your books or sort of like what what sort of little little tools to be productive or efficient like how because like I think your work ethic and my work ethic are very different the because you've written 78 books and I haven't the like what are your little life hacks here are my life hacks what my one I start with I'm a ritual person so I I will start with starting my day and you can call it meditation you can call it prayer you can call it what it is but I go through numbers of things one One of them is this. I talk about a lot of my failures in them in my head. I go back to my worst moments. And I go, my mom, may she rest in peace, when I was at my lowest moment. Uh, my publisher was shutting down. The second book hadn't done as well. I thought my career was over. And it was all done with two books. I was like, everything I thought I got on the first book was now had been finished. And I called my mom up terrified. And I'll never forget, she said to me, "I'd love you if you were a garbage man." And she wasn't taking a crack at garbage men. My grand my uncle

[00:01:00]
was a garbage man. But she was saying, "I don't care who you are. Whatever you do, whether you're the king of England or or have no job, I love you." And every day, even before my mom passed away, every day I sit down to write, I I say those words, "I'd love you if you were a garbage man." Just soaking in my mom's love for me. I need that. That's one of my life hacks. I need that that uplifting. And then I balance it out, of course, with my worst moments. But I but I need that positivity. And then the other life hack is you got to sit in the seat. The secret to writing is sitting in the seat. Building a novel, like building a business, like building anything, is building a sand castle, one grain of sand at a time. And on day one, you put down one grain of sand, you got nothing. And day two, when you're writing a book, you put second grain of sand, you got two grains of sand. But if you put down a grain of sand every day, at the end of the year, you're going to have something that's going to start piling up. And that's how you write the book. You got to sit in that seat. It doesn't It's not more than that. You write a page a a page every day. You

[00:02:00]
will have a book in a year. It may not be the best book. It may not be the worst book, but you're going to have a book. And that's the secret. >> It's a good one. It's a very good one. [Music]