
[00:00:00]
Do you prefer coaching teens or do you want to go back and coach SEALs? If the Navy called you and said, "We're looking for somebody to coach SEALs." Would you entertain the job if it meant leaving the kids? I I don't know that I could answer that question. Um, it would be a torturous decision. It would be a torturous decision. When we try to think of what it takes to inspire a team, we often picture a big dramatic speech or making some sort of bold powerful move. But sometimes it takes a lot less. Simply understanding how a team is feeling is all it takes to inspire them and help them operate at their natural best. That's what I love about Gordon Schmidt. Gordo is a retired Navy Seal who spent nearly 20 years leading teams in combat and has found his second act as a high school rowing coach. For Gordon, great leadership is not about making a big scene. It's quite the opposite. It's about quietly guiding people when it matters most. This is a

[00:01:03]
bit of optimism. This episode is brought to you by True Classic. They're a great company and I love their CEO. I've actually been wearing their t-shirts long before they became a sponsor. Their stuff is pretty fantastic, so do check it out. you had what some people at least from looking from the outside in had one of the coolest jobs. Passion driven. Uh amazing team spirit, you know. And how long were you in the Navy? Uh I was in 20 years and six months. 20 years and six months. Um and you left very recently. You have you haven't been out very long. About a year and a half. About a year and a half. And now you coach rowing. Yes. How did you get how did you make the leap from, you know, cuz you know this the stereotype is like I'm going to become a consultant. I'm going to become an author. I'm going to become a public

[00:02:03]
speaker. You know, I was a Navy Seal. Let me tell you how to lead. You know, how did you get to the the job you have now? Who are you coaching? So, I coach at at San Diego Rowing Club. Um, and it's the high school program, the specifically the men. And uh how did I get into it? So, I rode at the Naval Academy. So, I had that background and then I pretty much hung up the ore for the entire time I was in the Navy. Post retirement, I went for a few months where I just that was tough. It was a tough time. I was really kind of wallowing. And I had a former teammate from Navy who lives in San Diego as well. He's also in the Navy still. I talked to him and he said, "You should come out and row." I don't want to I don't want to I that was in the past. I don't want to do it. Bygon era. Yeah. And he's convinced me and finally, you know, I show up and the funny part is that the first practice I went to with this masters rowing program, which is masters rowing is just postcolgate.

[00:03:05]
You know, there's high school which is called juniors collegiate. There's the elite level, the Olympic level, and then everybody in between uh is just a mast's rower. But I showed up and the first practice was a seat race, which is when you line two boats up next to each other, you race a certain distance, usually about 3 minutes or 1,000 meters, and then you swap rowers and race again, and you compare the margins to determine who the faster rower is. So, the very first practice, we were seat racing. And I thought, well, you know, I'll just be in the boat rowing and this will be fine. and had no idea that my seat race was up. Now, mind you, I hadn't done this in about 22 years. Mhm. So, you can imagine my surprise when the coach was like, "Okay, uh Gordon and John." And I was like, "Is it my I'm supposed to switch now?" And I remember there was a guy behind me in the boat who goes, "Who the hell is

[00:04:05]
Gordon?" And I was like, "That's me. I guess I guess it's my turn." How many guys in the boat? We raced in eights that morning. Okay. So, two boats of eight guys each and I was off to the races. You know, getting back in the boat and feeling the rhythm and the flow and it just it's riding a bicycle. It came right back and I remembered how much I loved it. And uh competed with the masters program through the summer. We did very well. There's a there's a national championship for masters rowers. And towards the fall within the community of rowers with with San Diego row club, one of the guys mentioned he said, "Hey, uh the junior's program is looking for a new head coach. The guy who is was the head coach is moving on to a college program. So anyone interested, you know, contact uh the guy who runs the program." And and I thought to myself, "Well, I'm interested. That might be fun." So I did. And um I was honestly kind of surprised to get the

[00:05:05]
job. I had zero coaching experience. And the guy who hired me, I asked him a little while after I was hired. I said, you know, I'm just now learning who also applied. And there was a great candidate pool, guys with lots of coaching experience, people who knew San Diego Rowing Club who who applied. Why'd you pick me? and he said, 'Well, I know you know how to row and I know that you've dealt with the entire spectrum of the male ego. Referring to my military experience. So, I was like, we chuckled about. I said, yeah, that's that's accurate. And he goes, that's all it takes. And I said, yeah, okay, fair enough. What have you discovered about yourself now that you are Coach Gordo? Um, Coach Schmidt, they call they call you coach, right? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Yeah. Some of them call me Gordon. I quietly prefer that they call me Coach Gordon, but that's okay. There's some things. So, that's something, you know, you have to

[00:06:06]
with this generation, you have to be okay with some things. You know, it can't be Yeah. Um I gave up the military life. I don't expect anybody to call me sir or stand at attention when I walk in the room. But, um there's a little bit of I'm your coach. Yeah, I'll be coach. Um, what have I learned? I think patience is probably the first thing. Um, I've learned that you had to learn it or you you've learned that coaching is patience. Well, coaching is patience. I've learned that I'm a more patient person than I thought I was. That's a good lesson. Um, a nice realization. It's a nice realization, but it also it requires me to I'm aware when I'm doing it. So, oh, you know, you're being like I am being patient like you're present. Yes. And and that awareness I don't think I had before. So, how is a crew team like a SEAL team? And how's a SEAL team like a crew team? In so many ways, because you know how

[00:07:07]
many how many guys in a in a I mean, you got with eight guys, right? I know it's a range. It's a range. Sure. Um and different missions could but eight eight is not unusual. It wouldn't be unusual. Okay. So, 8 8 8 V8. How are they the same? Oh, man. Male ego. We got that one. Coordination. Got that one. Coordination. Um, so I I've always just in reflecting on my own choices in life and and what I loved about the sport of rowing, all of those things were, I think, the same things that drew me to a career in the SEAL teams. So, if you boil it down, I mean, the the differences are obvious, but the similarities are vast. I mean, just going through Buds, you're in a boat crew. It's called a boat crew. You know, that's how you're trained to uh to survive and and to get through it. And you realize through pain that

[00:08:09]
working together is the only way to success, which is an inherent aspect to the to the sport of rowing. I'll make a distinction here. There's I think there's a difference between rowing and crew. Rowing is the the overall sport, but you can row by yourself. You can row in a single skull and you can compete in a single skull. Um but crew requires a crew. It requires a team literally. Literally. And there's various size boats, but the fact that it's crew and not just rowing, I mean rowing is what the guys in a crew do, right? This is the I grow crew is what people say, right? Yeah. I've seen bumper stickers say I play crew, which is sort of a joke on the the whole sport. But that aspect of it that you're required to work together and that and that the teamwork is is the only thing that that makes it successful, I think, is is a is a distinct aspect of that kind of corner of rowing. You touched upon it a little bit, which is you loved being a SEAL. It

[00:09:10]
is a job of passion. Mhm. I mean, I know it ups up and down, of course, but you said you wallowed a little bit after you left. Is that because you had mistaken your identity for your job? No. No. Uh, which happens a lot. It does, but I I mean the two are are intertwined, but the but I also really tried to keep it separate. In fact, so much so that when people when I was on active duty and people would ask me, "Oh, what do you do? I'm in the Navy. What do you do in the Navy?" I would answer, "I'm in the SEAL teams." Which is I am a SEAL. I always had a hard time saying that. And I don't know why really other than maybe I just I didn't it it wasn't so much my identity as it was the group that I was with or the or the you know, it felt weird taking full ownership of It seems healthier. Uh maybe I am a SEAL is an identity. I'm in the seals is a a job, an act of service.

[00:10:12]
Yes. Contribution. But I think that where the wallowing comes in is that I realized once I was out that um it was so much a deep part of of who I was. Yeah. And then also, you know, the loss of of a brotherhood. Yeah. I mean, that sound is deafening. Mhm. Um I had a friend tell me once we were talking about having a similar conversation and and he said, "Hey, in the teams, what what they always tell you was the loudest sound in the world." I said, "Oh, that's easy. Your gun going click in a firefight." Whoops. That's That's a loud sound. And he said, "Wait until you get out. The loudest sound in the world is the gate shutting behind you." And uh I remember the day you have to turn in your badge and then you have to badge out of the gate. So somebody walks you out, you know, somebody I didn't know, not a friend, just random person, some random guy escorted out. And uh I remember sort of pausing at the gate and he badged and the gate opened and I

[00:11:14]
stood there for a second. He's like, "You good?" I was like, "Yeah, I'm good." And as I stepped through the gate and it closed behind me, this pit in the bottom of my stomach of feeling that loss, you know, feeling that um you know, it's now a thing of my past as opposed to what I do now. Um so, so I I can't honestly say that it wasn't a deep part of my identity. Yeah. Every vet I ever talked to, whether they were in for a short period or a long period, whether they loved the military, hated the military, 100% of them, no matter what they do next, misses the brotherhood and the sisterhood that they had, of course, in the in in the service, which makes sense. And and special operators, that camaraderie is even more exaggerated. So, it makes sense that the loss is even more exaggerated, you know, where it's not just something I loved and it was my favorite thing about being in the military, but to your point, like it's an identity. I mean, you know,

[00:12:15]
somebody says, "I'm in the Navy and I do this job versus I'm in the teams." It's literally called that, you know, like the crew. It is. So, so what was it that you reef that you because I haven't seen you this happy? I mean, you you and I have known each other a bunch of years. I've known you when you were active duty. I've I've been around for trials and tribulations. I've known you since you got out and some of the I think I'm going to try this. I think I'm going to do this. What if I did this? Like some of the spitballing and throwing spaghetti against the wall to see what sticks. And I haven't really seen you since you got this new job. No, it's been a it's been a bit. And you have a calmness about you now that you didn't have for a while. And so what I'm so curious is is like what did you find other than the team? Like what have you

[00:13:15]
found that you either didn't know you were looking for or maybe you did and you found it, but like what did you find here that you're in that same place you were before? Like belonging, identity, whatever you want to call it. Mhm. Well, the coaching certainly helps. There's a lot of purpose and um and value in that. And I, you know, I see the impact I have on these young young guys' lives and it and that that means a lot. But really to the wallowing, there was a point in time for me where I had to accept the loss. I was actually talking to my wife about this um the other night. Um, I think that I was harboring a deep deep sadness and it and it was it was the loss of, you know, my friends who who had been killed. It was the loss of seals I'd never met who had been killed and then the departure that I that I just described it. It, you

[00:14:17]
know, the really there's a finality to it. You feel like you just got off a freight train that's still moving and carrying your life and your soul with you and now you're standing there and it's it keeps going. And I think coming to terms with that loss and agreeing that I'm no longer going to numb that I'm just going to embrace it. Um I think that that was that was a necessary growth. Did that happen before you found the coaching or did the coaching help you get over the loss? Right about the same time actually. Coincidentally, coincidentally, uh, and and the timing couldn't have been better. Um, because I don't think I could show up for these guys, uh, in the state that I was in. What was the process that helped you come to terms with the fact of accepting something you could not have back? Something that was so important to you in fully integrated into your own who

[00:15:17]
you are. I'm so curious. Was it your wife? Was it therapy? Was it exercise? Like what was it that you know, was it just time? Like what was it the thing that helped you accept loss? That's a great question. Um, and I I don't know that I don't know that it was any specific thing other than I think that I got to a point where I was just I was tired of numbing. And uh, you know that the line from Shaw Shrank Redemption, this is one of my favorite movies. Get busy living or get busy dying, right? Mh. And I think that uh that I was numbing so much the sadness and and the pain of what I had experienced. And and we're not talking combat trauma. That's not some of the most resilient people I know are the most hardened combat veterans I know. It

[00:16:18]
really isn't that. It's it's it's more just in a general sense loss. Mhm. And when I just decided that I was no longer going to numb, that I was going to accept, I think that that was really the switch. And and to a decision, it was a decision. And the rowing helped really. I mean, it gave me a place to be every day that was full of purpose and full of drive and and I mean, really, I I can tell you that they're in they're inspiring to me, these young athletes. It doesn't replace Yeah. Yeah. Of course. It doesn't replace, right? But it um a new relationship won't replace an old relationship. Sure. But it's a new it's it's something new where I can still be fulfilled in the same way that I was fulfilled before. Yeah. Can you tell me a story about one of your rowers that you have learned something about yourself as a person, as a coach, as a dad, as a you know, as a husband that

[00:17:19]
you learned from one of these teenagers? Um, sure. I um so selection for the for the top boat is that's always Is that like varsity? It's called the varsity boat, but typically the whole team is the varsity team, but within a team, and this is true on the collegiate level as well, there's there's tiers of boats. And depending on the size of the team, you could go, you know, five or six boats deep. And we have about four uh four eights worth of of guys. And so there's obviously a selection for the for the top boat, which which is going to compete against other teams top boats. when I first came into it and I was kind of doing a a togetherness sort of right seat left seat thing with the with the uh outgoing coach and I would sit in the launch during practice and I didn't say much. I would just sort of observe and

[00:18:20]
it was very clear to me in in the first week that I was watching this who the top rowers were with the exception of maybe one guy. I could tell you who who the top eight guys were. Mhm. And the selection for that was important because about a month after I took over, there was a there's a big race in Boston called the Head of the Charles. Oh, yeah. And it's a huge thing because they can only take one boat. It's going to be the top boat and the athletes have to fly across the country. I mean, we were coming from San Diego. So, so it's a big deal. And I had to name that boat about 48 hours after I took the job, which like I said wasn't difficult to see, but the question in the back of every coach's mind is, is that really the right combination? Mhm. And are they all sitting in the right seats? Because the the order matters. So, we go to that race and we did well and we came back, finished out the fall and now we're into the spring the spring racing. And so

[00:19:22]
there's still the the question of who's in this top boat. It was the same eight guys as who who went to Boston in the fall, but I wasn't convinced. And so I took one guy out and I swapped him with a younger guy. He the guy I took out was a senior, um, great kid. I swapped him with a sophomore, young guy. And the boat did well. They won they they went to a race up in Long Beach and they they won uh handily against their competition. And what I observed in this young man when I took him out of the boat was he went through and I've seen seals do this. He went through uh this sort of emotional roller coaster. At first he was really angry and then he was kind of sad and then he was a bit isolated and then finally I I said to him at one point I said listen your job right now is to make whatever boat you're in the fastest boat that that is possible. It's like in right now you're in this boat. And I've always

[00:20:22]
made it clear to these guys that nothing's permanent. No changes are permanent. everyone has an opportunity to compete and and to prove themselves, you know, at least worthy of of a seat race. Um, like I mentioned before about, you know, determining who who can make the boat go the fastest. He didn't say much in that conversation. He just kind of nodded his head. That was the end of of practice that day. We went on a couple more weeks and I watched this kid every single day come in and work. I mean, there was no practice that was off. There was no practice that was a, hey, I'm not really feeling well today. I'll just pull lightly. You know, there was nothing like that. And this kid attacked everything. And I quietly observed this two or three weeks later. I mean, I was convinced he was he was the right guy for the boat and and he's back in there now. So, you know, what did I learn from from this? I see things

[00:21:23]
like that and it's constant reminders every day of what I loved about the SEAL teams, what drove me to get there. It's reminders every day of seeing a guy, you know, with his back up against the wall about to lose something that he that he really wants. and rather than, you know, pissing and moaning about it, but to actually like take charge of of his situation and go after it again. Such a good lesson, right? Which is it happens all the time, which is somebody gets not necessarily demoted, although that sometimes happens, but somebody gets moved onto a project they don't want to be on or things teams get sifted around all the time in in the private sector and instead of moping around, you know, you can go through the process of mourning. He said he was angry and that's fine. Like you go you of course you know we have goals. We his identity was I'm in the lead boat. I'm in the top one boat. You know like that's part of his identity and then say no my job is

[00:22:23]
to be a member of a crew. And even if I'm on a different boat I'm going to make sure that that's the best damn boat in its category. That's a hard lesson to learn. It seems like a it's simple but not easy. Yeah. Why don't most people like he's a he's look he's a great he's a great rower. He was on the top boat to begin with, right? He's clearly a disciplined athlete. He does the work. He shows up every day. If he had been bitter and angry and he never got over that and coach is an idiot and he doesn't see my talent and then he would have proved my point. He would have proved your point and and he would have been a a mediocre rower for the rest of the season. Sure. And the boat that he was moved into would have suffered. Would have lost. Yeah. Or at le Yeah. Or suffered. Yeah. Because it's not just about talent and strength. Um you know, it's culture. Yeah, there's a culture within a crew and it has to be positive. Yeah. Any crew, I don't care how fast you are, you have to understand as a crew how to be in control of the race if you're down. You know, if you have 500 meters left in

[00:23:24]
a 2,000 meter race and you're down by a length or half a length to your opponent, having the composure and the confidence to know we're still in control, we can still win. That's huge. And and I mean it's a lot of fun. It's a lot of fun being in a boat that comes from behind to win. The elevation that you feel in that kind of a win is far more fun than getting out early and staying out and winning by a lot. Do you prefer coaching teens or do you want to go back and coach SEALs? If the Navy called you said, "We're looking for somebody to coach SEALs to do doesn't matter what." Would you entertain the job if it meant leaving the kids? Oh, if it meant leaving them. Um, that see, thanks for adding the the twist at the end there. Um, I don't know. I I I really love coaching. Yeah. In general. Yeah. As I got older in the SEAL teams,

[00:24:24]
I spent a lot of my time mentoring and and coaching the younger guys. In fact, just a week ago, some guys who are working through some mission planning stuff, it was a guy who I had mentored a few years ago who's now in charge of some others and wanted me to come back and help out and and I was overjoyed that that I got the call and and I went I went down and spent my days. But you didn't answer the question doing that. I I don't know that I could answer that question. Um it would be a torturous decision. It would be a torturous decision. Yeah, because I still have a deep affection for the seal community and and you know at the drop of a hat would would do that. You demystify I think people stereotype of a seal, you know. No, I think does that mean I don't seem like one? I think if people if people take what they know from the television and from movies and from books and from some of these larger than life personalities who like used to be seals and now they're you know whatever they're doing now you are um

[00:25:26]
not like that. Yeah. I think if people met you I don't think that that would be their they wouldn't label that stereotype on on you. I think it's one of the things you and I connected on very early on, which is there's a but a humanity that that you bring to leadership and that you bring to what it means to be an officer in the SEALs that it's not just about grit and brawn and you know like those things matter. Hey, I didn't see you're very brrawy. Well, Simon, you're very brrawy. But you've said it you've said it a thousand times which is it's you have to be strong. You don't have to be the strongest. You have to be fast. You don't have to be the fat fastest. You have to be a good shot. You don't have to be the best shot. You've said that a hundred times. And the guys who compete only to be the best, the hardest, the fastest, the miss the plot. And there's a there's a culture to the team. And I think people when they think of SEALs, they think of Buds, which is partially brawn, but it's also a mental

[00:26:26]
game. Yes. That some of the strongest guys fall out and some of the scrawny guys make it through. Mhm. Are there more like you or are you in the exception to the rule? I don't think I'm an exception. I'm just asking. I don't I mean I only know a handful of I think that I mean well to address the you know you don't have to be the best shot or whatever. I think that there's a a very healthy culture in the SEAL teams of wanting to be the best shot, wanting to be the fastest runner, wanting to be the fastest swimmer. It's just mature seals who recognize like nah, swimming is not my strength or running is not my strength and then they kind of gravitate to what what they do know. So there's nothing wrong with the wanting. No, in fact, it's in fact it's important because it's it's not only important, it would be concerning if they didn't, right? Because you have to have a push and a drive to be better, better, better. And the and the guy who's better than you, that's a that's a he's a pacer. Yeah. He like when I go out for a casual run versus when I run in a race. I run faster in a race than I do for a casual run. Even if I want to run fast

[00:27:27]
because I have someone ahead of me who I want to run in front of. Sure. Yeah. No, there has to be a competitive nature. Yeah. Or else, you know, you're never you're not getting better, right? But understanding that more important than being the best shot is being the best team. Yeah. It's strong teams that are successful, not strong individuals. This is the single most misunderstood thing in the private sector. And I have learned from the teams. I've shared, you know, some of the stuff I learned from our mutual friend Rich Diny that he's taught me when he was director of training and some of the stuff that's put out there by former SEALs. And it is amazing to me how often in private sector people take lessons taught about or from SEALs and attempt to apply those to individuals. But it's not. It's all about the team. It's the highest performing organization. It's a high performing organization made up of individuals obviously, but not necessarily the highest performing individuals, right? That detail is is so commonly

[00:28:29]
lost. It is so misunderstood. And I don't I wonder, have you run into that since you've left? I mean, you haven't really done the whole work at a desk thing since you left. Congratulations, by the way. I don't know if that's congratulations or maybe I'm just lazy. No, no, no. Oh, I think you dodged a bullet. Um, have I I can't imagine you showing up in a suit, sitting at a desk. It's I I can't I don't have it in me. I don't have it in me. Part of me wishes I did. Why? You just said it. It's not about what your It's about finding out what your lane is. You know, I suppose that's not your lane. It's somebody else's lane. And like my lane is not your lane. Like I've hung around with with seals. There's no way. I have definitely don't have the physical fortitude to get through buds. I know that. I don't have the mental fortitude to get through buds. You know, I'm I couldn't do it. But I still get along with them because they the I I relate to them culturally

[00:29:30]
like this the they don't look down on me because I don't have the grit or the stick with itness, but they they because I connect with them culturally and understand the culture of the teamwork and the togetherness and the love. Yeah. Um, you know, I've been very grateful that I've been sort of accepted in accepted in when I went to visit. But also, it's important to note, I mean, I I would I would tell you that I don't I don't have the grit to do what you do. I don't. And and and I think Give me Wait, wait, wait. What What grit do I have that you don't have? I I really don't think so. I I would never want to write a book. That's pretty awful. I would never want to do that because I just it's that sounds to me like I'm back in high school typing away at an at an essay and I've got a deadline and I've got to get it done and that that was hard. That I don't want to do that again. And writing a book just sounds like it takes grit that I don't have. I'll call right? Because you did many things that you did not want to do, including sitting and cold surf arm-

[00:30:31]
in-armm with, you know, potential seals. But there was and you did things once you were a SEAL that you didn't want to do because it was just it was not fun at all. But you did it because there was a reason that you were doing it. There was a reason to put up with it. I don't enjoy writing books. I enjoy moments of it. But as a whole process, I it works to all of my weaknesses. Like I like working in groups. I have to work by myself. Yeah. I like short and fast. It's long and slow. I like to be an instant expert. It's a torturous urine reminder of what an idiot you are, you know, the whole time. It plays to all my weaknesses. And the reason I do it is not for the joy of writing. There are many people who have the joy of writing and are good at writing books and churn them out. I'm not that guy. I I write the books that I write because I get to the point where I have an idea set that I need to share and I put up with it for that, you know, one year or two years, however long it takes me to write the book. I put up with it because I'm the

[00:31:31]
work if I can get it out there will have a greater impact and then I'll be done. It is finite, thank goodness. I'll either succeed or I'll fail but there's a beginning, middle, and end. So I know I know that it's not going to be forever and I put up with it because because there's a higher reason to which is no different to and I bet if you if you had an idea set or you had a reason or a calling or somebody was pushing you I think the reason most people don't have the grit is because their ideas generally they're like they're good ideas but they're not ideas that people are begging for. So the only reason I wrote a book is because my early work people kept saying this is so helpful to me. Can you help my friend? This is so Simon, can you please write this down so I can give it to somebody else? Not my desire to write the book. And you get to the point you're like, I can't talk to everybody and meet everybody, but if I wrote this down, then I could talk to everybody's friends. No, that makes sense. It's very rational approach and and the grit follows. The gr follow. So the grit follows. And so I think I think I think you'd surprise yourself probably

[00:32:32]
like you surprise yourself at Buds. Well, well, no. So, I was able to tap into grit to get through that because I saw a community and a brotherhood that I wanted to be a part of and I was willing to pay the price of admission. You saw a message that you needed to get out. Yeah. And you were willing to pay the price of admission to get there. That's a great paradigm. It's the same grit. That's a great paradigm, which is there's a cost for everything we do. Is this cost worth it? I love this concept of the price of admission, right? Which is how badly do you want this? Today's episode is brought to you by True Classic. And this ad that you're about to hear isn't really like a normal ad. I sat down with Ryan, their CEO, and we had a conversation about his journey, about the lessons he's learned so that we could use some of those clips to share with you. We call it an ad with authenticity. Stability kills the entrepreneur. So it sounds like what you've done is that you've injected the chaos which is the

[00:33:32]
speed into your business. So that the only option available for those who will thrive there is creativity. Creativity is a huge component of it. And just being a creative it was to me one of the most important parts of standing out in such a boring archaic industry. Yeah. Where do I even begin? Yeah. You know how do I infuse comedy into t-shirts? How do I infuse wholesome content? How do I kind of uh show people what we care about and how we make an impact for people? How do we get that across so that people understand our why and what's important to us as a culture? But also somebody can come up with an idea and go, I think we should do this and you'll be like, I think it's a terrible idea. Try it. Like I have to believe that you'll say that. like you may disagree with it, but but this is what you're what you're doing that I think is really important. And what I'm learning is so often in businesses of every size, there's eventually one person who is the idea killer. I don't like it. It could be for objective or

[00:34:33]
subjective reasons. I don't like it and it'll never see the the light of day. Your mentality is I don't like it. Let's try it. That's exactly right. Even if it's risky, by the way. So your willingness your willingness to be proven wrong is part of the magic because you don't think you have a lock on ideas or decisions. It's the iteration and allowing anybody to have an idea and and the merit of the idea will be proven by the market not by some executive. I think we were talking or maybe it was someone else I was speaking with about quitting about quitting buds and why do people quit buds? You know it takes in these days before it was kind of like you signed up and and they said oh are you sure you want to do that? Okay. Yeah, sure. And you go. Nowadays, the guys who who find themselves to buds have gone through a lot of barricades to get there. So, when they finally show up and they quit, it begs the question, why would you quit? And I and I I've always said that I think it's because they're not being honest with themselves about

[00:35:33]
what they want. It's not just about sitting in cold surf or being uncomfortable. Yeah. That's what you have to do to get through it. And this is the other thing people ask me sometimes. I' I've had a a question about this recently. They said, "You must have had a really compelling reason to want to be a SEAL." And I said, "Well, I just wanted to be a part of the group." And they said, "I don't buy that." I was like, "No, I just wanted to be a part of the group. It was a pretty compelling reason." And they said, "Well, you know, but to go through all that." And I said, "That's just what someone else decided was the price of admission." the price of admission. That's just And I said, "What? What is it?" 6 months of Okay, that sounds awful, but All right. That's the ticket price. Yeah, that's the ticket. And and so what enabled my success and I think what what enabled anyone who gets through that program is that they're honest with themselves about wanting to be a part of. So one of the guys, okay, great. So take me through that story. So nowadays the the pre-selection is you

[00:36:34]
know you have to be in certain physical shape you have to pass all kinds of mental fitness barriers you know all of these things to even get to the place where you can even be a try out for buds right what are they lying to themselves about like what is the lie they're telling themselves when you say they're not being honest about why they want to be in the team that why they want to uh wear that trident is there a common lie Okay. Maybe. And I think that it has a lot to do with whatever they perceive the status of of having that title. I think that it might have to do with I'm trying to put itself in the minds of somebody who would go to Buds and not and and quit, right? I think that, you know, they they look at themselves in the mirror and they say, "Yeah, I want to be a seal," but they have no idea what being a seal really is. And they would laugh if I if I could be

[00:37:35]
there in that moment and explain like if I if someone had told me prior to going to Buds, why are you doing this? Oh, okay. Because I want to be a SEAL. Okay. Do you know what being a SEAL is going to involve? Being a SEAL officer, do you know what you're going to be doing? You're going to be on this computer program called Defense Travel System. And you're go and you're gonna have to and it's going to freeze on you every 3 minutes. Windows 95. And you and it's in Windows 95. And you're going to have to do this by noon today. And you've got to get a plane ticket. And by the way, you can only fly American Airlines. And then Oh, and you have to do that for your whole team. And you have to get them all set. and and then, you know, report to the commanding officer. I'd be like, "What happened to the to the to the shooting and the blowing things up and swimming and diving and what what about that?" Well, yeah, there's a little bit of that, too. But actually, you're going to be I would have been like, "No way. I want to do this." And uh so, so I so you know, my

[00:38:37]
motivation was not to be a SEAL, although this sounds very strange. My motivation was to be a part of the group, a part of the brotherhood. I saw those guys and I said, "I want to serve with those guys, right? And I'm willing to do what it takes to get there." And once I'm there, if it means having to get on DTS and fill out orders and get stopped five times because the computer crashes and then have to change my password. That's part of That's part So, there's a price of admission. There's a price of staying. Yeah. And and if that's what it is, when I'm there, I'll be fine. But I'll look around the room and I'll be with these guys and that'll and that'll be worth it. Has it changed in this in this day and age? Has it changed with like because they may be physically fitter the the young seals that are coming in well at the point they get to Buzz. You know much is said of this young generation being more selfishly motivated you know for all the reasons that we see in the outside world. Does that affect the percentage of seals that are able to make it through BUDS these days? I don't think so. Interesting. And I know that there are statistics out there on this, so I I

[00:39:37]
and I can't quote them, but I don't think that attrition has appreciably changed over the years. In fact, the only time it really changes is in the winter when the water's a little colder. The other thing that I I remember I went out to Coronado and they let me be there for a portion of Buds to sort of like see it happening, which was amazing. And I see when they quit, they ring the bell and they put their helmet on the ground. And as the weeks progress, you can count all the helmets of all the people who quit, right? And the thing that I thought was interesting was there's like onesies, twzies, you know, somebody quit and somebody quit. But then when you you can see in the helmets like you see an officer's rank on that helmet and then immediately there's like three enlisted guys right after right after him a quick in quick succession. Why is it, it's not a coincidence. Why is it that when an officer drops that that in quick succession, it's not onesies and twzies

[00:40:37]
anymore. It's like three within within a very quick period of time. Why is why is that? Well, I think I mean there's the obvious um you know, you're put in a leadership position um as an officer through BUDS and like you or not, the guys they see you as a leader and if you're if you are a good leader and if you are well-liked and if you are physically fit and and you're and you're crushing the various events and then you quit and remember age matters too. So most most officers are a little bit older going through buds and most enlisted guys are are a little bit younger. Some of them are, you know, some of them are very young, 17 or 18. And most officers are the young ones are 23, 24. Mhm. So that I think plays a factor. And and you know, a young guy who's maybe on the fence about whether or not he can he can do this. He can climb the mountain sees

[00:41:37]
a guy who's older, fitter, stronger, charismatic, whatever. Um likable, he quits. And then it becomes this kind of like, oh my god, if he didn't make it, there's no way I can make it. Now, here's this is an interesting one. If you've ever noticed, I don't know if you've had the opportunity to actually see the quitting in process, but if you've ever seen an officer quit and then nobody else quits for a while, that officer made the right decision. Okay. Oh, interesting. Seen that before. uneffective in ineffective leader. Good riddance. Good riddance. Yeah. So the Oh, interesting. So when an officer quits and nobody else quits, they're happy to see him go for a period of time and then eventually something will catch up. Sure. But when there's one and then the quick succession, it's the psychology which which is they're gaining strength from their officer. It could be some combination of I don't want to let him down or wow, I'm if he's

[00:42:39]
sticking with it, I I can too. to what you said is and if he can't do it, there's no way I can do it. But it works. It works for all ranks. We only notice the officers more because the the helmet because the helmet has a stripe on it, right? And you say, "Oh, okay." But it's the quick succession, right? If there's if there's a young kid and then immediately two or three others right after him, then that kid was a young leader. That kid was a leader. Oh, so this really really underscores, you know, a that leadership has nothing to do with rank, right? Everybody understands it intellectually that if a leader can a leader sets the tone, a leader sets the example and especially in an extremely difficult time, if a leader is able to push through, especially with a great attitude. Pushing through with a bad attitude, as you said, good writtens, right? But pushing through with a great attitude really does carry people. It does. Yeah, for sure. I saw it firsthand in my own my own buds class. There was a um I don't even remember the guy's name. Um, but he was the leader of, you know, the

[00:43:39]
I'm sure you've heard stories about the Smurf crew. They're the smaller Yeah. smaller uh less height advantaged members of the class. And the class is important. It's such a heightest thing for say how tall are you? Six. What? Two. Okay. As a smurf. No, you would have been in the middle. Um, I'm 5'9. The No, these guys are like 5'1. Okay. Okay. They're actual Smurfs. They're small guys. But it's very heightest in buds. It has to be because for the whole first part of it, you're carrying a boat on your head. So you need to do it with similarly altitude impaired or or advantaged people. Okay. Uh so he was he was the officer of of the Smurf group. And for some reason, and I don't know this, and I think I think that most people will agree with me, it's the large group, like they call them the Giants, the Jolly Green Giants. It's those guys and it's the Smurfs that

[00:44:39]
are always competing with each other and then everyone else kind of falls in between. Yeah. It's like the small guys have something to prove and the big guys just have long legs, so they're able to stride out farther. I don't know what it is, but there's like there's some rivalry between those two groups. So, I knew this guy well and I saw him and I and I not just that, but I saw the dynamic in this crew and those guys did not like him. I don't know what that was all about, but I I know that he was, you know, he it was really mostly in his tone and how he treated him. And I remember when he quit and they cheered. Wow. Dark. It was in hell week. It was the first morning. So, we started on Sunday night. By Monday morning, he quit and they cheered him off the beach. Wow. And I remember sitting there thinking, "Oh god, I need to make sure I need to make sure I stay in good standing with these guys cuz, you know, I would hate for them I mean, I'm not going to quit, but I hate for them to sit there and be cheering me

[00:45:40]
off the beach as I as I you know, failed at the program." Like that would be Yeah. And you know, it's little things like that. It was little things like that throughout my career really that lasted that I that I saw that I was like, "Okay." And I would take those as cues of of the example that I needed to be and and the type of leader that that I needed to be because that's what worked. How much of it is per is it um preference? We were talking about this before before we went on uh before we turned on the microphones, which is there are some leaders personalities that I am drawn to. I'm drawn like I would follow you. I'm drawn to your leadership style. And there are some guys that their style just turns me off, but it works for other people. You know, sort of the screamy yelly sort of like it's not my thing, but for some people, they love it. And so, how much of it is is like are good leaders transferable to all personalities? Or is some of it kind of luck of the draw if you get a leader that resonates with your personality? Like the guy who the Smurfs cheered off, could he have been an effective leader

[00:46:40]
for a different group of personality? No. No. and and and I think it came down to respect and and tone. You know, you're always being watched as as a leader is, you know, it's just a thing. It's you're being watched when you're not in the room. Authenticity, respect for those in your charge, the tone you take with those in your charge, all of that matters so much. And and that has nothing to do with the style. Like I may not like somebody style style, but I really respect them as a leader. And in fact, I've I've, you know, throughout my career, you know, there would be somebody like I'd be going to go work for somebody and I wouldn't know who it was and someone would tell me was like, "Oh, well, he's an but at least you know it." Yeah. And so what that tells me is the person who had experience working for that leader may not have liked their style but didn't mind working for them because they were predictable and authentic even if the style wasn't necessarily

[00:47:40]
their favorite. I did a personality assessment a bunch of years ago and one of the guys who was administering the personality uh test was sort of explaining it to us and explaining like how you get evaluated and he says you know I'm he says this test proved you know showed me that I'm this and I already knew that cuz I'm an and and I was like don't you want to work on that? Like like the test affirmed you're just using as an excuse to get away with being an Like I agree, by the way. I find you that way as well. The test agrees. Maybe you want to like work on that a little bit. Like I But if it's effective, I don't think it was. Okay. I thought he was an I want, you know, like couldn't wait to get out of the room. Okay. Well, then yeah. So, I think we need another word cuz I think even though we may use it colloquially, ah, he's such an Like, do you say it with a smile or do you say it with a grimace? you know, like I think at various points throughout my career, you know, espeotically, I'm sure my team has

[00:48:41]
called me all kinds of names be, you know, in when I'm not in the room. But I'm hoping that I I hope I mean, they're all in the room. I should just ask them. Um, they're all conspicuously quiet. Um, I'm hoping that at least they can say it with a smile, like they recognize that it's episodic, that it's, you know, I I've learned that if I'm going to change styles, cuz you have to change styles for the circumstances, right? You know, leaders in the military, they ask opinions, that cures what other people say. They want to get feedback. But when you're in a firefight, you are absolutely command and control. I don't have time to get your feedback. You've earned the trust to you earn the trust first in order to turn on the command and control switch. But then when you're done, you turn the command and control switch off. And the mistake that I see people especially in the private sector who totally don't understand military life, they are command and control all the time and nobody wants to work for them. Right? And so I think for me it's context which is context and communication which is I know I have to

[00:49:41]
modulate sometimes I get the modulation at the right time sometimes the wrong time. you know, sometimes overly, you know, coma on a time where I really need to turn it on. Yeah. When sometimes I turn it on too early or turn it off too late. But I I try and explain, look, this is going to happen. These are the reason, these are the circumstances. I'm going to be different. I'm going to turn on this switch and at the right time, I will turn it off. But this is how it has to be for this short period of time, for this reason. And I found that to be helpful to offer people guidance. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, a technique that it's there's an irony to this. Um, but one that I I think just fell on by accident once is if you kind of so in those moments where you would expect a leader to be commanding control or even yelling and it would be appropriate and nobody would fault you for it. If you can take a moment and be the opposite in those

[00:50:44]
moments, it unears so much so much you there. It's amazing to do. And I'll give you an example. So, it's a combat example. There was a lot of shooting going on. There's a back back and forth. And I remember coming over a radio and saying in in this tone, "Hey, John, whoever it was, uh, I need you to do something for me." Which is not what anyone would expect to hear in that situation instead of, you know, what would have been totally appropriate, which is, I need you to do this for me now, and I don't want to hear your opinion. Hey, how's it going up there? I need you to do something for me. and then immediately got back, hey boss, what can I do for you? And it was and this is a conversation happening in in sort of a dire moment. I don't know what possessed me to act that way in that moment other than it calmed me a bit and I feel like it calmed the person. Is this is this pilots and air traffic controllers? No. Because you know pilots

[00:51:44]
and air traffic controllers are insanely calm, especially when things go wrong, right? And they have to be. And air traffic controllers are trained to stay calm to keep the pilots calm because they're the ones, you know, on the burning plane. No, this was me talking to a guy who was pinned down and and he came back equally calm. Yeah. It was like we were sitting at a coffee shop having a conversation and and what's the lesson? Calm breeds calm. I don't know. I think that the the the connector is engaging the human side. Yeah. And not being robotic or unemotional about it. Yeah. It's sympathy really recognizing that it's going to be different, right? And so, you know, my versus playing the part of General Patton every day, thinking that your authority comes from being gruff and loud and boisterous and and assertive. And we both know leaders like that in uniform and nobody likes

[00:52:45]
them. Everybody thinks they're smart and nobody likes them, right? And nobody wants to suffer for them or struggle for them and they would cheer them off the beach. No matter how strong they were, they would cheer them off the beach. Yeah. Yeah. That example I I I'm think I think that it was tone, the respect that they could see that he didn't have for them, but I think that he was also physically I think he was holding them back. No. And they were and and you know, such a competitive little group. They were like, "Get out of here." All right. I I want to ask you a story that I wouldn't ordinarily ask somebody who who had your job. Um, but I'm curious about it because I think the way you're going to ask answer it is different than the way most would answer it, which is what was a mission, dare I say favorite mission, but a mission that as a SEAL really stands out and you have you look back and you be like that was

[00:53:46]
amazing. That was, wow, that was quite an experience. I'll carry that one with me for the rest of my life. I have plenty of memories of of missions that were done or whatever. But when I when I hear the question, you know, I'm not a former pro baseball player and it's, you know, what was a game that was really memorable, right? And that's how the question sounds to me. I don't remember I I I guess my memories of the combat experience in the in the actual missions that we did are not broken up by mission. Does that make sense? My but they are broken up by mission. Go out, do this. come back, succeed or fail. But I look at it more as things go right, things go wrong. There's more of a thread. Okay. So, tell me tell me a mission that you learn something about yourself or your guys that you didn't know before.

[00:54:50]
Okay. Um well um we were this would have been in Afghanistan and my it was a platoon sized element. I was how big? Uh I had 12 guys. Okay. They're bigger now, but mine was mine was notoriously small. our assignment for for for that deployment was, you know, partnering with Afghan uh soldiers and and enabling their operations. That was that was how it was termed, you know. Um it wasn't a far stretch to realize that they were actually enabling our operations. And actually thinking of it that way was detrimental. You know, we we really had to think of it like we're pushing them forward. This is their country. They're going to uh provide the security someday, right?

[00:55:50]
Their end of story failed. Someday it didn't work. Someday. Um and uh there was a series of missions that was put together. They were all they were all kind of one long mission but but cut into series of them. And it was supposed to be 48 hours in the field, 48 hours out of the field, relieved by another team. In fact, the helicopters that we left on, they arrived on, they went that way off the ramp and we got on and and it was just this very rapid turnover. And we were supposed to clear with 12 guys and about 45 or so Afghans, an area the size of Manhattan in about two weeks. And we planned for it for for months in advance. And the initial plans were, you know, they asked me, "Well, this is what we want to do. How would you do it?" And I was like, "Uh, okay. First off, it's a SEAL platoon and 45 Afghan soldiers who are

[00:56:54]
of varying levels of competence and it's an area the size of Manhattan. I don't think it's possible. But if this is what you're asking me to do, here's how I would do it." We there were three friendly bases that kind of equidistant from each other along this stretch of land. And I said I would go to the first base and live there for about two weeks and operate in the area and then I would pack up and move to the second base and live there for a week or two and operate and then so on. And they said, "Yeah, no, we're not going to do it that way. You're going to land, be in the field, and then a new team is going to relieve you." And so the way I described initially, it was what I got told to do. Essentially, this early conversations were just me and and the command team who were just kind of telling me what what was going to happen. But eventually I have to tell the guys what's going to happen. And you know, you can't you can't walk in and throw your hands up and say, "Well, we've got to do this crap thing that I don't want to do and

[00:57:54]
it's not the way I want to do it and blah blah blah." because then they're going to they're going to adapt or adopt that um that mentality and it's just it's going to go south. So, you have to do the good leader thing and come in and say, "Okay, you know, here's what we're going to do and this is the intent and and well, okay, well, you know, the funny thing is the guys immediately come up with the same thing." They're like, "Well, why don't we just go there and stay for a little bit?" And they're like, "Well, they tried that. It's this is how it's going to happen." Okay. So we go on the first one and immediately within the first few hours our uh senior EOD technician is an officer bomb disposal. Bomb disposal. His name was Brad. Um he triggered an IED that left him permanently blinded. We had to evacuate him that day. Um and he never returned. He was permanently blinded. Went back to Walter Reed and and now he's actually doing quite well. He's a parolympian. He's won swimming.

[00:58:55]
Wow. Brad Snyder. We hadn't suffered a loss. I mean, we we we'd suffered losses and we'd had there were sister platoon and and neighboring units that had suffered losses who we we knew those guys were, but within our 12 or 13 guys, um we hadn't suffered a loss where a guy had to be taken from the battlefield and we'd been there for eight months and we had four to go. It was a year-long deployment, which was unusual. Normally, they're about six months. I was getting to a point as a leader that I was feeling pretty confident in myself. I was feeling like, hey, you know, I've been at this for a while now. I know what I'm doing. Um, I think that we've we've had hurdles and I've successfully navigated those hurdles. We've had highs, we've had lows. It's all but good. We were very very tight as a group. Um, and then that happened. And to be honest, I didn't know I didn't know how to deal with it. Um, I

[00:59:56]
mean I I knew tactically what I needed to do. I knew how to get them out of there. I knew, you know, what we needed to do for the rest of the day and and continue the mission. Yeah. Um, but emotionally, you know, it hit everybody differently and and it hit me in a way that, you know, I wasn't prepared for really. You know, you'd always thought about it like, you know, how are you going to be if you know, one of your guys gets hurt or killed? that's always in the back of your mind, but it's never something that you really want to address until you have to address it. And what we learned about ourselves in that moment was a how we all reacted to it emotionally and then how it affected how we operated from that point forward. We learned well I learned how I not only reacted to it individually but how I reacted to it as a leader. The only real sort of trepidation I had if I had it prior to going through hell

[01:00:56]
week was I don't know how I'm going to react after 4 days of not sleeping. I've never done that before. Nor do I want to try it to find out ahead of time. I'm just going to do it and Thursday is going to be whatever Thursday is going to be, you know, and you just sort of find out when in the moment. And so that's what that's what this was like. And what I found and what I learned about myself was that empathy was the key. Empathy was the most important thing that that that got us through that got us through the mission that got us through the remaining months that we were on deployment. understanding and having an appreciation for how everyone reacted and every and what everybody needed to come back from that and to and to still either complete the mission or perform or be successful. I don't know that prior to that moment I could have given you a good answer if you had asked me what role does empathy play in leadership. I don't know. I could have given you a textbook answer, but I

[01:01:59]
I think that's when I really really learned that and I think for that reason that that mission sticks out in my mind. Obviously, you know, Brad getting hurt was a significant event and it sticks out in my mind for that reason too. But the power of being an empathetic leader, I think, is was a lesson that all And how did the empathy show up? it showed up. Um, you've got 11 other guys. Yeah. So, um, plus the Afghan contingent, right? And they and in that same in that same uh incident, they lost two of their guys. There were there both of there were two commandos who were killed um in in in the same time. Um, so how did the empathy show up? Like was it like there there hand on hand on shoulder? No, unless that was needed and I think that that was only really needed after the

[01:02:59]
fact and even still there wasn't a lot of hugging and crying because it wasn't needed that in particular. Instead what it was for us initially in the afternoon. So what happened? So that happened. Uh we evacuated our casualties, total of four, and then we patrolled to that first friendly location where I wanted to be in the first place. We patrolled there. We had to. My medic was out of and I had one medic. So I was below menforce for the mission, which I jumped up and down and screamed about prior to leaving. And they said, "You're going anyways. There's too much momentum behind this." And so we're on the ground with one medic. He's out of equipment because he's used it all. Mhm. Um, so we need to resupply him. I'm below minimum force for EOD. Mhm. Uh, technicians, so I need to figure that out. And really, you know, we need to just kind of take a knee for a minute. There's nothing

[01:03:59]
timesensitive about what we're doing here. So, let's just regroup and figure out what we're going to do next. So, we did that. And fortunately what was happening in the in the background was the enemy um now typically in in IED when that would go off the enemy was usually there to do what what we called an IED ambush which was a you know bomb goes off and now raining bullets down on you. We were early enough in the morning that I think we just surprised them. They didn't know we were there but we were aware of their movement and we were aware of kind of where they were assembling. And it happened to be about a kilometer north of this location that we were at. And they were remaining static. They were there for most of the day. And so I sensed that, you know, the group was just kind of starting to get a bit aimless. They were starting to, you know, you you come off of that sort of adrenaline of the morning and you start to sort of question what the heck

[01:04:59]
you're doing and why you're there and what's going on and and that's where the leader is the key. It's not necessarily about um raw, you know, giving a St. Christmas Day speech. It's about understanding where the train is going to kind of come off the rails and then just getting it back on or at least is it simple as saying, I know how you feel. I feel the same way. We had that conversation as opposed to rah rah, you know, we got this, you got this, we're Navy Seals. No, there was none of that. But that's also not my style. So maybe a different guy would have been that way. Fair enough. Um, but what I did was and I and I was talk the the the team leader who was a Green Beret who was who lived there at that camp. Um, I had known him. I'd worked with him a few times throughout the deployment. So, and knew who he was. And he brought me in and he's like, "Hey, look at what I'm looking at." And it was about the location of of the enemy personnel in the area. And they had masked about 15 to I'm just trying to get specifically what the empathy looked like. So when

[01:06:00]
you say empathy. Yeah. So once so we kind of came up with a quick plan about what to do next. And so the empathy looked like this. I knew that something needed to be done, right? The absolute wrong wrong thing to do would have been to sit there with our tail between our legs, playing video games, and eating, you know, the Girl Scout cookies that were at this location, right? So back out into the field was was what we needed. And so I brought the guys around and I gave them all the information I knew. I I gave them, you know, the situation throughout the day. Here's what we saw, the movement of the enemy personnel, where they're located now. And basically just kind of I didn't give them a plan, but I gave them a I gave them an intent and an idea. And I said, I think we can patrol right out the north gate and I think that we can patrol into an L and have these guys in our field fire and I think we can do

[01:07:01]
that. I think we can get it done in about an hour. I think it would take an hour to do it. And they all kind of started thinking about it and looking at it and they and they agreed and and and that was essentially the plan that we executed. And I remember right before leaving the wire to go to go do this. I remember there was a moment. So I I pulled out my radio and I made a a routine call to the headquarters that we were leaving the wire and I put my radio away and I kind of in that moment I sort of looked they were all looking at me and I was like oh this is the moment where I have to give a blood and gut speech you know and I didn't I I could I again it wasn't my style. I said, um, nearest I can remember, I said, "You guys know why we're doing this." None of them said a word. They just nodded their heads and they're like, "Yep, let's go." And they were, every single one of them was dead set and dead serious. So, where did the empathy show up? I think the empathy was in understanding what it was they needed in that moment, and they needed to get

[01:08:01]
back out there. I don't know at the time if I thought I was doing the right thing or not. I mean, I I I must have had an instinct that this was the right thing, but I also knew that we're going back out into uh into a lethal environment and the same thing could happen again. And it was years later actually that some guys from and and it was onesie. There was never like a group that got together and said, "Gord, we got to tell you something." It was it was really just oneoff conversations that I've had with those guys since. And in some cases, I've asked, but in other cases, they've volunteered the information where they said something to the effect of, "I'm really glad that we went out that day. That's what we needed to do." And uh, you know, at the the second patrol. Yeah. And you know, I've I've felt reassured over the years that that you know, that the inspiration to do

[01:09:02]
that came from from empathy, came from understanding what it was they needed in in that time and going from there. Thanks for taking the time. It's always a joy talking to you. Of course, you as well. Thanks, man. A bit of optimism is brought to you by the optimism company and is lovingly produced by our team Lindseay Garbinius, David Jaw, and Devon Johnson. If I was able to give you any kind of insight or some inspiration or made you smile, please subscribe wherever you enjoy listening to podcasts for more. And if you're trying to get answers to a problem at work or want to advance a dream, maybe I can help. Simply go to simonsick.com. Until then, take care of yourself. Take care of each other.