
[00:00:00]
Customers talk about they have great service or bad service if they got what they want or didn't get what they want. Right? But that's not true. I'll give you an example. Let's say I'm on a business trip and my work is done early and I want to go home to my family. I check the website. I see that there are there's flights available on the earlier flights. Let's call it a day early. Um and so I call the airline and I say, "Hey, I'm done early. I'd really love to get home to my family. I see that you've got availability in the earlier flight. Can I get on that flight? And the agent says, "I'm sorry, you have the wrong class of ticket. I can't change your I can't change your flight. I'm happy to pay a fee. I'm happy to pay whatever it is, please. Can I get on that flight? I'm sorry, sir. I told you you have the wrong class of uh you have the wrong class. I can't I can't book you. You have the wrong status flight. There's nothing I can do. The computer won't let me do it." Okay. I now hate that airline, right? Okay. Let's replay that. Okay. Same scenario. Hi, I'm done early. Love to go home. I see you have availability. Can I get on that flight? Sir, I want to

[00:01:00]
get you home to your family. Here's the problem. Your your your ticket is the wrong class and so the computer won't let me. But let me let me see what I can do. I really want to get you home to your family. Click click click click click click click. That didn't work. Click click click click. That didn't work. Sir, let me talk to my supervisor. I'm determined to get you home to your family. Go away. Come back. Sir, I talked to my supervisor. We've tried like six different things. There's nothing I can do. I am so so sorry. I just cannot get you on that earlier flight. Don't worry. Thank you for trying. I now love that airline even though I didn't get what I want. And that's what it feels like when someone cares. It doesn't mean we always get what we want, but what we get is somebody who understands and cares about what we're trying to accomplish. That's considered good service.