
[00:00:00]
First, we have to understand what the why is, right? It's a purpose, cause or belief. That's the reason why the organization exists. It has nothing to do with your product. Your product is the physical way in which you bring your why to life. So, if you have your product or service in your statement of purpose, you miss the point, right? So, like my why for example is to inspire people to do the things that inspire them. So, together each of us can change our world for the better. It doesn't say what I do to bring that to life. That's the reason I I get out of bed in the morning. A why is fundamentally an origin story. It's where the organization comes from. In every organization we work for someone or a small group of people were the founders. Every single organization was founded. And the question is is why was it founded? What was so important that it was worth the overwhelming odds of failure to start an entirely new business as opposed to just getting a job and doing just well just doing just fine there. Stirring the pot if you need to. What was so important that a new organization had to be founded? What problem were they trying to solve for?

[00:01:00]
What what solution didn't exist at the time? And it's and if you go to the drive that that that inspired remarkable risk amongst the founder and the founders's friends who were the early employees that the question is is how are you bringing that to life today? So whether it's a new company or an old company. So like take the Walt Disney company for example. Great example. Walt Disney started uh uh Disney um shortly after the war, coming out of the Great Depression, coming out of the war. And it was a pl is a time of high stress. And literally his idea was an escape, a place to leave your problems behind. And when he started with the cartoons, it was a few minutes of relief and then it became featurelength films, which he pioneered. So you could leave behind your problems for an hour and a half or two hours. And then when he invented Disneyland, oh my goodness, you could literally spend days and walk through these gates. And if you ever go to a Disneyland or Disney World, you'll see there's a a Mickey Mouse statue uh with a plaque which Walt Disney wrote that behind these gates you leave behind and

[00:02:01]
you join the magic blah blah blah, which he wrote in the 50s. And it's as relevant today as it was then. And it's about this magic and human connection and good clean family fun. I mean, that's what it is. And when when Disney adheres to that, they're a highly successful innovative company. When they abandon it, they struggle like any other company struggles. So in the second term of Michael Eisner, Eisner became obsessed with world domination. That has nothing to do with Good Clean Family Fun or leaving behind your the stresses, your problems. >> And you saw what happened at Disney in those years. They couldn't attract top talent. We started lumping Disney in with just another big corporation. It wasn't the exception. Mhm. >> And then when Bob Iger and Tom Stags took over, um, they went back to the roots [snorts] and they looked at the portfolio of Disney and they said, "Are we staying true to ourselves?" Meaning, are we staying true to the vision of our founder? Why our organization was founded? Doesn't matter what products we make, are we staying true? And they looked and they saw that they uh owned

[00:03:02]
Disney owned a production company that produced um films like uh Quinton Tarantino films. That's not good. Clean family fun. They owned a music label, a record label that produced death metal albums. One of the bands was called um World War II. These don't sound like Disney things. And so, even though they were profitable businesses, they sold them off. And if you've noticed, Disney does not own a casino on the Vegas strip. Can you imagine how good it would be? Star Wars, Marvel. Like, I would I would so badly want to stay in that hotel. but they'll never do it because gambling is not a Disney thing. It doesn't make sense. And so when they are at their best, they're staying true to the reason the company was founded. And the opportunity for future CEOs and future leaders is not to keep the company in firmaldahhide, which is we're always going to do the thing that we did, but rather find new ways to bring that original founding purpose to life.