
[00:00:00]
Think of a teacher or coach from when you were a kid, junior high school, high school, I don't care, who saw something in you that the others didn't see. Who believed in you? Who took you under their wing? And you could probably say who you are today is due in part to who they are, right? Tell me the name of that teacher. Uh, Mr. Spalding. Okay, just scream out the name of that teacher. Okay, easy. You can remember their names like that. Now tell me all the other teachers you had on your schedule that day. Cannot remember. Cannot remember. The point is you are carrying the name of two or three people in your life who had profound impact in your life because they saw something in you and they believed in you. If I flash forward 20 years or 30 years and I ask the same question of a different audience, wouldn't it be amazing if they said your name? And that's the problem. None of us want to be remembered for the last balance in our bank account. Do we don't want that written on our tombstone or the last title we had on our business card or how many projects we completed.

[00:01:00]
Is that what you want on your tombstone? We We want to be remembered for the kind of person that we are. Devoted, loving. Those are the words it says on our tombstones. And so you can wake up every day to make more money and you can wake up every day to do more projects. Good luck to you. I wish you the best of luck. And you may succeed in that. And at some point it'll end. Either you'll quit, retire, or get fired, but it's going to end. Right? And the problem is is you've confused the value of your life and you've confused your purpose with your work. And when you no longer have the work, you will go through an identity crisis like you've never had before. Or you can define yourself by who you are. I define myself as an optimist and author of. And if I no longer write books and I no longer give talks and I'm no longer in the public eye, I will be an optimist to the day I die. And that's the value I hope to give to the world and to the people around me. And every single one of us can do the same.