
[00:00:00]
One of the mistakes that we've made is we've confused workload with burnout. Well, it's related to some degree, but you know, you can work with passion and work long hours, and you can work long long hours with no passion, and you're more likely to burn out. Because when you're working with passion, working those long hours is invigorating, right? And I got this wrong for many years. I was very strict in my company that I didn't want anybody to work after hours, and I didn't want anybody to work on weekends. Because, you know, I believed in balance and blah blah blah. And I a company I I I did some work with called Water Cooler, they gave me some data that showed because and they what the companies they predict they predict burnout. That's what they do, right? And they showed me this data, which was amazing. And basically, people who never work on weekends and never work in the evenings, very very high risk of burnout or flight risk because they're bored and not very engaged. So, very high flight risk, right? People who work too many nights and too many weekends, very high rate of burnout or flight risk

[00:01:02]
because they're overdoing it. But people who occasionally work nights and weekends are actually very very happy, and they're choosing to work those nights and weekends because they care. Because they care. And I immediately got it wrong. So, now I don't mind if people work nights and weekends. I monitor how often they're working nights and weekends. That's number one. But also, I check in with people, and we have to do that. Are you okay? How are you feeling? And I think the rapport of being able to check in with each other. This and and it's it's as much as true in with young people in friendship as as it is with work. Are you okay? How are you? Is a question we very very rarely answer. And I'll [snorts] leave with one final thought. A friend of mine, George Flynn, who is a he retired as a three-star general in the Marine Corps. He said that his test of leadership is if somebody asks you, are you okay? And actually cares about the answer. That's a leader.