
[00:00:00]
I hope everybody has somebody in their life, at least one person, hopefully more, that in your darkest times, when you're depressed, when you're angry, when you need to vent, when you need to just get something off your chest, when you're not at your best, that you can call somebody and they can hold space for you. Like I hope we have I hope everybody has at least one of those people in their lives, right? What I found amazing is the number of people that we have in our lives that we can call to brag and say how great we are, and I did something amazing, is an even smaller number. Think about that for a second. I can call more people with my problems than I can call to say I'm amazing. >> Mhm. And why? >> Right? And I think it's because, and it goes to this thing of trust, right? Which is to hold space for someone who's doing well and have no jealousy, and have no envy, but to celebrate them like you're their parent. The pride. That's a That is even more difficult. Mhm. And I was talking to a friend of mine, great great human being, who's uh

[00:01:03]
very successful, and I was telling him this observation that I've made, and he looks at me and goes, "Yeah, I have no one." He's done well in his life, and he keeps it all a secret to himself. He never gets to say, "I made it big today." I think it's important to celebrate yourself. Um it's one of the things that gives us confidence, right? To say, "I I did okay. I did I did good." Because don't we want our kids to be able to celebrate themselves? Don't we want our Don't we want our colleagues to celebrate themselves? The people who we're leading, don't we want them to be able to be excited about their accomplishments so we can say, "You did this, you're amazing." Like we want our kids to be able to be okay with that. We don't want them to brag. We don't want them to think they're better than other people. You know, a healthy ego is the belief that you're good. An unhealthy ego, arrogance, is the belief that you're better than others. >> Yeah. And um and I like I said, I think a healthy human being has a range of emotions, and um and denying yourself the opportunity to express them is is missing out.

[00:02:03]
>> Yeah.