
[00:00:00]
Most people don't realize this. Nintendo is over a hundred and fifty years old as a company. Yes, exactly, right? It started out making dominoes or playing cards or something a hundred and fifty years ago. But they never defined themselves as a domino company. They defined themselves as a as games, playing. And so as technology has advanced, they said to themselves, how do we embrace new technology to continue to help people to play? Nintendo doesn't make phones. Nintendo doesn't make MP3 players. They could. They've never ever ever gone away from their core belief, which is play. And they've just embraced technology to help them find a new way to bring that to our lives. And they're so good at it to the point where they still dominate in their category. A hundred and fifty years. Compare that to entire industries that were so protective of their business models because they defined themselves by what what they do and not

[00:01:00]
why they exist. They defined themselves by their product that change hit them sideways. So for example, how embarrassing is it that Amazon invented the e-reader, the Kindle, and not the publishing industry? How embarrassing is it that Netflix pioneered streaming and not the television and movie industry? How embarrassing is it that a computer company, Apple, invented iTunes and not the music industry? It's because those organizations were so hellbent on protecting what got us here that they completely found themselves ignoring that the world around them had changed and they weren't embracing the world. Forget about the technology. What the music industry is just one example failed to recognize is that with the the rise of MP3 players and and or the rise of the MP3 as a technology, the DVD was the previous technology that we had moved from an album culture into a song culture. And that they completely failed to recognize that. So they were still trying to get us to buy albums at Tower

[00:02:01]
Records and Apple said, "No, no, no, songs. People want to buy songs, right?" And this is where you get things like Spotify and all of these things that showed up. They're making playlists for songs. We don't listen to albums anymore. It's not a thing. It's not Great album is not a thing. Great song is a thing. Great single is a thing. But the point is they were paying attention to the culture around them and then they said, "Is this technology going to help us sit where the technology sits?" And the technology influenced the culture. But most companies are either protecting their old business models, in which case they're missing the point, or um which is even worse, which is just reacting to everything and then you can't work at a company like that cuz it's it's like literally working at a pinball machine. Um yeah, it's going to be nuts. Just even the way you said that has made me kind of you've turned the concept of a change um for me a little bit upside down because you know how you're saying it's just another input. Change is not a good thing or a bad thing. It's just a thing. And some of it's worth adapting to and some of it's worth ignoring. And the question is is what business are we in?

[00:03:02]
Should we react to this or should we ignore it, right? And sometimes it's a mixture of both and sometimes if you're a little bit wrong, that's okay, but you have to be open-minded. You know, the great businesses understand that everything is written in pencil. Everything. Your strategy, your product, everything. Everything's written in pencil. Can you imagine if Nintendo was still trying to make us buy dominoes and playing cards, they'd be out of business. They'd be out of business. Um and that's what that's what great companies are able to do.