
[00:00:00]
Human beings are not very good at um at imaginary things. And goals are uh if you don't have a goal, growth is imaginary. You that doesn't really work very well. Nobody's motivated by that. You need to have numbers. You need to have metrics. You need to be able to count. It's a dopamine reward system that we have and this is where dopamine's doing the right thing, not the wrong thing. We always talk about it as a pejorative thing, but it's a very healthy thing. And it's it's it's it's it's invigorating to see ourselves getting closer and closer to a goal. What's really important is at the end of the season we should be very careful because I said the trend is really important, right? So, just from a let's just take a quick side step sort of about incentives, for example. Like let's take a sales team, right? They have a sales goal and they've not been hitting it. Then like the last quarter they dropped the prices, they have a bunch of promotions. They Everybody goes into afterburner. They stab each other in the back and they hit their goal. It's a whole a team. But they hit their goal.

[00:01:03]
So, do we give them rewards? And then you have a great team where the the esprit de corps is high, the camaraderie is high, they take care of each other, they they they treat the customers right, you know, uh and you can see this beautiful trend line that's just it's not this. It's just this beautiful trend line and at the end of the year they're just shy of the goal, but it's they're going to hit it. It's obvious. It's a great team, no attrition, no Everybody loves each other. How can we not give that team a a bonus cuz they missed their goal? You know, um I knew a company that had 50/50 bonus structures, 50% goal, 50% contribution to culture. So, if you were the if you only hit your goal, you got 50% of your bonus and if all you did was kumbaya and walk around and make sure everybody's okay, you got 50% of your goal and 50% of your incentive. Anyway, this is the danger of a purely finite mindset. Like we're a performance-driven company, you know? Um It it it works for a while until it doesn't. When the tides turn, the weather hits, you know,

[00:02:05]
weird things that you don't expect show up, tariffs, supply chain, you know, like these things just show up out of nowhere. Now, let's see how it goes. Let's see how strong that team is. Um and so those trending this trend becomes really important. Anyway, going back to what you're saying, finite games have beginning, middle, and middles and ends. So, real finite games within the within the the game is like you're competing for a piece of business, you know? That's real. There's going to be a winner and there's going to be a loser. Or like in an airline, for example, like you put a lot of pressure we put a lot of pressure on those gate agents to make sure that that flight leaves on time. Beginning, middle, and end because that's really important. But, we want them to be aware of the infinite game cuz you can't yell and scream at the customers on the way to getting the plane off on time cuz then they won't come back on your airline the next trip. But, you'll be like, "What? You told me to get the plane off on time. I did exactly what you told me to do." No, I want you to make sure that you do that and ensure that they'll come back cuz that's the infinite game. Cuz if they don't come back, we go out of business no matter how many flights leave on

[00:03:06]
time. So, the awareness that this is in a context of business, that it doesn't beginning it doesn't end with this. And that's the problem with a lot of excessive finite-minded executives is they treat the financial year like it's the end of the game. It's just a waypoint. It's just a waypoint. Or they treat getting that plane off the ground like it's the end of the game. It's just a waypoint.