
[00:00:00]
companies tend to do a very good job of teaching their employees the job they need to do. How to work the fryer, how to work the, you know, the oven, whatever it is. Um, how to talk to a customer, you know, um, we tend there there's a lot of opportunity to do better in teaching people how to listen, how to how to give and receive back, which we talked about. Um, how to have a difficult conversation, that's a hard one. Um, these are these are human skills. How to have empathy. >> Um, how to replace judgment with curiosity. Um, uh, these are these are all teachable, learnable skills and and it's one of the annoying things about being human, you know, which is which is cats don't have to work very hard to be cats. They're just really naturally good at it. Um, and humans have to work really hard to be good at being human. We are not naturally good at it. And this is why relationships, whether it's romantic relationships, friendships, or work relationships, are clunky and messy and difficult. And if you have a bad night's sleep or something bad happened at home, all that stress comes to work. Um uh and so starting with empathy is a great is a great a great entry point and

[00:01:02]
I'll give you an example of empathy at work. You know um uh here's pretty normal situation. Hey uh your po performance is down for the third week in a row. Um we've had this conversation before. If you don't pick up your performance I I I don't know what's going to happen. Fairly normal. >> Let's replace effective >> not most effective. Let's replace that with empathy. Right. Hey performance is down for the third week in a row. We've had this conversation before. Are you okay? I'm worried about you. What's going on? Very different. And it and you may not get an answer immediately because especially if it's something's vulnerable, they may not want to share immediately. But that feeling that somebody actually cares about me as a human being, not just as a performance machine, um goes a long way.