
[00:00:00]
When you were junior in your career, somebody taught you how to do your job. You either went to school for it, if you're an accountant or something like that, or the company gave you lots of training. Why did they give you that training? Cuz they want you to be good at your job. That's why they gave you the training. They're not idiots. They don't expect you to know how to do it if they didn't show you how to do it. But they'll eventually promote you and they give you no training. You get promoted to a position where you're now responsible for people who do the job you used to do, but nobody teaches that. And and so the choice to become a leader means I will choose to learn this new skill that's difficult, right? Um when you enter a relationship, you have to make choices to learn how to listen. You have to make you have to you have to do that. And so the AI conversation is well, what kind of person do you want to be? What kind of leader do you want to be? What kind of partner do you want to be? What choice are you going to make? And I'll give you an example. Let's say you have a fight with someone. I don't care if it's at work or at home,

[00:01:01]
right? You have a fight with your girlfriend, right? And you feel bad and you want to put it right. And so you go to chat GPT and you say, here's what happened. Uh I want to take responsibility. What should I say to repair this relationship? >> Have you read my phone? And careful. >> [laughter] >> And chat GPT gives you a perfect answer. And you don't memorize it, but you you got it. This you got the gist, right? And you go to your partner and say and you give what chat GPT told you to say. And she goes Thank you. That is thank you so much. Yes, I yes. Did you get that from chat GPT? And if you say yes, you're back to being in a fight again. Yeah. Because you weren't sincere. You weren't sincere. That doesn't mean we can't use chat GPT, right? If you have a fight with uh somebody at work or you have a fight with uh your partner, you should you

[00:02:02]
should get advice. You should get advice from your friends. If you have a therapist or a coach, you should get advice from them. And you take all the advice from people and you form a strategy and you go to your partner and you fumble and bumble and say, I want to put this right and you and it comes from the heart. Mhm. And it's that that makes somebody fall in love with you or trust you. It's that you actually mean it. It's the sincerity. It's not that you got the words right. Mhm. It's that it came from you, from the heart, not from the head. Right? And we're in a society right now that is so obsessed with the net result, the end result. Like I want to write the perfect apology. I want to write the perfect press release. I want to write the perfect blog post. You know, we're all wearing metrics devices and like we're all so obsessed with the metric and the end result that we've forgotten the value of the process. We've forgotten the value of the heart. It's not just the head. Right? So for example, could AI write my next book? 100% it could. There's enough out there that it could take source material from. I could tell it all my thinking and it'll bang

[00:03:02]
out a book. I have no no doubt, right? I've tried it with articles. It's scary good. Um uh and getting better. But here's something I know. Here's something I know for a fact. I am smarter. I am a better problem solver. I am much better at pattern recognition. I'm better at understanding the logic of an argument because not because books exist with my ideas in them. It's because I wrote them. Mhm. It's because I struggled to organize the thoughts. It's because I had sleepless nights trying to solve problems. I was I was having brainstorming sessions with a million people to help me. I had to ask for help. It was that I wrote it. Mhm. The struggle of the process is what made me better. And that's why I'm talking about the example with the partner, which is it's the process. It's the struggle of the process that makes you a better partner, a better boss, a better employee. That you're choosing to be a better version of yourself. Now,

[00:04:04]
at AI can absolutely live alongside. It can be one of the resources you call upon. But I would like to learn the skill and I would like others to learn the skill, too. I don't want them to just say the perfect thing. I want them to know why they're choosing those words.