
[00:00:00]
So, Simon, I actually, as I was preparing for this conversation, I went back and watched the OG clip of you in 2009. Um where you were um you were um it was a TED Talk, I believe, and he went completely viral, and it struck me when you gave the talk that the iPhone was brand new. Facebook was still mostly for college students. Cloud computing was still was in the early kind of phases of what it was. And And AI were really just two letters in the alphabet. So, if you were to go back knowing what you know you know today and talk to that 2009 um version of Simon, what would you What's one thing that you would you would say to Simon of 2009 knowing what you know now? >> I don't think I would change anything. Um the message that I've been spreading for all these years is a reminder of humanity. And remember, Start With Why is fundamentally about how people think, act, and communicate. It It sort of It

[00:01:02]
where I I came up through the marketing world where all these trips that uh uh what do you call it? Tricks and tips that people were using to get people to do what they wanted. And the way that I came up with Start With Why I was looking at the biology of human decision-making. It was fundamentally human. And so, with the rise of the internet and people talking about how, you know, online shopping was going to replace bricks and mortar. It happens every single time technologists forget about the people because they become enamored with their technology. Don't let engineers run companies, right? Um because they always forget the people. No offense to every >> to say, if there are any engineers we love you, too. >> But But it's it's it's just funny to me. And this the conversation about AI now, it's an amazing technology. It's remarkable. We're not 100% sure where it's going to land, like every technology. You talked about electricity. You know, you could say the same thing about the fax machine, the Telex machine, the you know, email. They were all disruptive in their own way. Obviously, this is a much bigger

[00:02:02]
disruption. There's a lot of uncertainty which causes a lot of stress. But at the end of the day, we are human beings who work with human beings, who sell to human beings. And if you don't understand people, you don't understand business.