
[00:00:00]
I can no longer be accused of being a crazy idealist if what I imagine exists in reality. [music] That's how I felt after I met Bob Chapman and learned about Barry Waymiller, the company he led. 16 years ago, Bob saw my original TED talk about the why, and sent me a letter. He claimed to have built a company like the one that I described in my work. The only problem is I tend to write about [music] what's possible. My vision is more of a striving. Clearly, my curiosity was peaked. And so, a couple of months later, I met Bob for lunch. To say he was amazing is an understatement. [music] He had an energy like few other CEOs I've ever met before. And that 1-hour lunch turned into spending [music] 3 hours together that afternoon. Bob told me story after story about his culture and his people and how they were responsible for the reason the company outperformed the S&P year after year after year. Now, you have to understand

[00:01:01]
CEOs often try to convince me that they have the best cultures. And very often after I take a look for myself, I learn that well, they don't. [music] As much as I loved meeting Bob, I wanted to see it to believe it. And see it I did. We spent four days together traveling from factory to factory across the Midwest. And what I saw blew my mind. This unknown CEO leading a company with a hard to remember name had built a culture that could be the model for all companies. Barry Way Miller figured out how to build a business model and a corporate culture that kept people safe, really safe, as well as psychologically safe. They didn't send jobs overseas to save money. They didn't lay anyone off during the 2008 recession, and they won't be replacing people with AI. This company wasn't built for the short-term ambitions of investors, but for the long-term benefit of the people who worked with and for the company. It's

[00:02:02]
built to last generations. Bob built something that he and I both believe deeply, that business can and must be a force for good in the world, not just by giving money away, but by the very business model itself. The very existence of Barry Way Miller meant, as I said before, that I can no longer be accused of being a crazy idealist if what I imagine exists in reality. I went on to write about Bob and Barry Waymiller in my book, Leaders Eat Last. And Bob and I went on to become very dear friends, and he became a very close mentor. In September 2025, I decided to go back to one of Bob's factories in Phillips, Wisconsin. [music] Except this time, I brought a camera crew with me. I wanted to show the world what Bob had built. [music] We made a mini documentary so that the world could meet some of the amazing people who worked in Phillips [music] and to hear from Bob himself. That episode went on to be one of the most popular episodes we've ever released. And I'm so glad we

[00:03:04]
made it because 6 months after our visit, Bob passed away. I miss Bob desperately. There's barely a day that goes by that I don't have an impulse to call or text him to ask his advice, make fun of him, or talk about our shared passion for what business and capitalism can and must become again. Years ago, I sent Bob an email in which I made him a promise. What I didn't know was that Bob had that email printed to hang on the wall of his office. There is no force strong enough to pry me from your side, I wrote. I am with you always. I [music] will carry your torch for decades to come. And when the time is right, I will in turn pass it on to another. Our impact will last generations beyond us. This is what we must plan for. And it is with that promise in mind [music] that I wanted to release the full conversation I had with Bob from the time we spent together in

[00:04:04]
Phillips. I want as many people as possible to hear him and his message. [music] It will, I promise, inspire you. Thank you, Bob. I miss you and I love you. Bob, what a treat. Oh, there's a big bean. Big wasp. Let's move the wasp. [laughter] >> He wants to be in the show. He wants to be in the show. Wasp. Wasp gone. >> Bob, when I walked back in here, back in Phillips, Wisconsin, the flood of memories, the flood of emotions. I've been here a few times over the years, but I haven't been back for probably six or seven years. And I remember when you and I first met and whatever it was 15 years ago, you told me about what you'd built, this amazing business where people care about each other. And it's such a treat to come back and talk to

[00:05:04]
you in the very place where you took me on on my first tour to see it. I'm so curious like when when you meet people and they say to you sort of, Bob, what have you built? What's your business? How do you talk about this? Well, as you know, my first half of my career was very traditional about management, financial results and growth. And through the series of revelations I went through were the lens through which I saw people because I saw them as machinists, labor, union members, office people, people working on the floor, all the traditional ways we talk about. And the lens was reversed and I saw them as somebody's precious child that's been placed in my care. Everything changed for me. So the lens through which you see people affects the way you treat people because I was raised that you need people to achieve results and when you don't need them anymore you let them go. So the revelations I went through that change the way I see people. So the lens was clearly seen if you see people as somebody's precious child it

[00:06:04]
profoundly affects your leadership style. My major responsibility to people are in company is to give them a grounded sense of hope for the future. they can trust in my care. I take that incredibly profoundly seriously. >> I know you and I have talked about this about sort of how being a parent and being a leader are very similar. You talk about how being a parent, this child is brought into your life and you're responsible for its growth and its upbringing. And in business, a person is brought into your office and you're responsible for their growth and their upbringing. I appreciate that the lens for you changed where you stopped seeing people as line items and mechanisms for your success, but rather that you are now responsible for their growth, their success, their happiness, their well-being. But how did you learn leadership? It's one thing to say it. It's one thing to read it in a book and be this this leader who just sort of views people as items on a spreadsheet. How did you make the conversion to being the leader you are now? Because a lot of people, you know, especially people who sort of either listen to this podcast or read my work,

[00:07:05]
they're on that journey. You went through that journey. What was it that you were able to make that conversion to be this heartfelt leader rather than just all head and all numbers? >> It was a journey as you said. And when I realized that day at the wedding that the all 12,000 of our team members around the world are not functions for my success. There's somebody's precious child who I have in my care for 40 hours a week. It changed everything. And and a young man asked me about that time, what is your greatest fear, Bob? Now you know me, I'm an internal optimist. And I had to stop and think and I said my greatest fear is that we were blessed with a message of the way the world was intended to be where people would genuinely care for each other and would be dependent upon me and I would leave this company this earth and what I had built would fall apart because I've seen that happen in churches and companies all over the world. So my greatest fear is that this blessing we've been given would not live beyond my time. So we

[00:08:05]
began I got had an incredible team around me called the empowerment team you know some of those members and I said how do great religions survive all the time you know this is how we devour from great religions and we said they articulate their beliefs which we have in the guiding principle of leadership and then they have disciples who carry this message forward beyond the founder because it's not Bob we all believe this is the way we should treat each other so we said how are we going to do that we can't send people back to universities to learn to be truly human leaders. So this eclectic team for the whiteboard said, "Well, we're going to create our own university." And they came up with three powerful classes that in hindsight we were blessed with because empathetic listening, which is the most powerful of all human skills, recognition and celebration. How do you let people know they matter in thoughtful, appropriate ways? And then culture of service, serving from it's all about me to actually care about you. So seizing the afternoon. So, you know, it was just kind of this

[00:09:05]
journey and this eclectic team and we started teaching it. >> So, give me some of the the principles that you teach and I know all of the classes that you teach are voluntary. People choose to go through it and if they don't want to go through it, then that's fine, but people can see the impact that it has on their co-workers, their their colleagues and friends when they do go through these classes, which is why I know that there's a good long waiting list for people to get into your classes. What are the core ideas that you teach in the empathetic listening class, for example? Well, first of all, one of the things I've learned in teaching this, because again, it was our team member David Viner who came up with the idea because when somebody said if we're going to start a university, we need to teach people to listen. I thought why would we need to teach adults to listen? We all know how to listen. Okay, that is the biggest revolution we realize that we don't know how to listen. Okay, we we're taught to speak and we're taught to debate or we're not taught to listen. Okay. The divide we have in this country in the world is because we have a lot of people I'm right and you're wrong. Okay. That's the world we see it in politics between our countries. And so this team came up

[00:10:07]
with this idea that we would teach empathetic listening. Okay, which is is the most foundational human skill that you can possibly have because you validate the worth of others when you listen to them without judge. Not listening to debate, not listening to respond or judge. simply listening to validate the other person. And when you do that, it still amazes me, Simon, that this eclectic journey we've been on, we were simply trying to change managers into leaders into disciples, people who would carry this forward well beyond my time. 95% of the feedback, 95% was how it affected their marriage and their relationship with their children. >> This class was built to help people function better at work, right? That they would that they would communicate better at work. Right. Right. I thought when you hire somebody the pay and the benefits was the exchange for the present and as long as you needed them you would pay them but when you didn't need them you'd let them go and this changed everything because what we realiz is what people want to know is that they matter okay we have a very

[00:11:07]
prosperous economy but we do not have a healthy economy because we have depression anxiety because people don't feel valued they feel used so this listening class still amazes me 20ome years later that we've taught all over the world. This is not an American issue. This is a global issue. When you teach people to listen, they tell you the stories of how it improved their marriage and their relationship with their kids. So when we say what's wrong with kids today, >> they say where did they come from? It came from families where parents probably came home from a job where they don't feel valued because of that stress and anxiety whatever and concern about the future. Probably don't treat their spouse as well as possible. And what do our kids see? They see the behavior of our parents who don't know how to care for each other. They may be in love, but they don't know how to listen to each other. And so it was unbelievable the feedback we got. If your listeners could have heard the thousands of people I've heard around the world who have taken this class from India to Serbia to China, it's a universal truth. The healing power of listening is profound.

[00:12:09]
This is such a, you know, we've bifurcated the world, right? It's like you have your home life and you have your work life. And we forget that it's not two different worlds. It's one very integrated world because the people who are going to work go back home and vice versa. And so if they go to a place of work where they don't feel like their work matters or they don't feel like they matter, they don't feel like their leaders care about them as human beings, they only see them as means of production, that stress that they carry of course has to go somewhere. And it comes in the form of lack of sleep, high blood pressure, it comes in the you're grumpy, you're short-tempered, and that affects one's own health, but it also affects the health of the family unit. As you said, you know, you come home stressed from work just cuz you have a a shitty boss, you know, not a toxic person, not somebody who's like screaming and yelling, just doesn't make you feel like you're mad. They just care about your productivity. That stress comes out at home and that affects kids grades, kids self-confidence. And it's an amazing concept. The logic is so

[00:13:09]
simple and the logic is there which >> it has to be simple because it's occurred to me it has to be simple >> which is if you're teaching these people how to listen empathetic listening so that they can better communicate at work. Those skills are the skills they're going home. Not only do they feel better at work, they're taking those skills and they're raising their kids better. It's having a I mean that a good job and a good place to work is good for my family occurs to nobody, >> right? >> And that a company would say come work for us. It's good for your family. other than just the money we're gonna pay you because that's usually how we measure if it's good for your family. How much can I provide? >> In my education, undergraduate accounting, MBA, Price Waterhouse, then running a family business. I was never taught, never told, never made aware that the way I would run this company would affect people's personal lives other than the compensation and the benefits. We think that is the exchange. You give me your gifts, I'll pay you fairly. But the most powerful thing we do to people is validate their worth. And the greatest source of happiness is a good job doing meaningful work for the people they enjoy. Back to your point, I

[00:14:09]
get in front of CEOs all over the world and I say, "You're all worried about the cost of healthcare." You are the problem. 74% of all illnesses are chronic. The biggest cause of chronic illness is stress and the biggest cause of stress at work. Jeffrey Feifer at Stanford wrote a book dying for a paycheck. And he doesn't mean anxious to get it. He estimates 120,000 people a year die of work related stress. Okay? These things I was never taught, never met with because it's really about creating economic value. Okay. And we thought the pay was human value. >> Yeah. >> The real value is feeling value. >> Can you imagine if we taught in our MBAs in our MBA classes that that that how you lead will directly affect someone's health and that if you're a bad leader, there's a very short chain of logic that you're actually killing somebody. Increase in cortisol hurts the immune system. you know, this slow steady drip of of cortisol because of the stress at work. I mean, to your point, which is people don't feel responsible for the lives of the people in their span of

[00:15:09]
care because nobody's connected the dots for them. One of the things I find so remarkable about Barry Way Miller, which is all of your leaders understand that it's not just this mushy mushy hippie- dippy stuff that you're doing this, that there's a deep sense of responsibility to the lives of the people who their parents gave you their children to look after. Yeah. I mean, seriously, Simon, when you look at the feedback I've had all over the world again, it's so foundational to the world. We just don't know how to care for each other. And what we've learned >> is you can't, as the CEO round table did, you can't ask people to care. You have to teach them how to care. >> You can't ask people to speak Chinese. You have to teach them how to speak. We found that caring is a teachable skill. And the good news back to your MBA program is that with your encouragement and support and the evolution of this that we are working with a number of major universities now to transform business education to create tomorrow's leaders who have the skills and courage

[00:16:09]
to care to bring these human skills in with academic skills so when they leave our educational system they're ready to live in the beauty of diversity not the conflict of diversity. They're ready to be good stewards of the lives at home, in their community, at work. But it's a teachable skill and but we have always felt academic skills are the key to success and we forgot the human skills. >> What was the second class? So the first class was empathetic listening. The second one was >> recognition and celebration. >> Okay. So what are the core tenants of recognition and celebration? Why did the company make that class? >> Great question. Cynthia and I had the blessing to raising six kids. Cynthia who? My wife, >> yes, >> had a blessing to raise six kids >> because nobody teaches you how to be a good parent. We went to classes and I'll never forget this one class where this gentleman said, "A key to raising healthy kids is you need to compliment them five times more than you suggest things they could do better." Okay, that really made an impact on me because we tend to, you know, why didn't you get your whole school work done? Why didn't

[00:17:09]
you get home in time for dinner? And and said, boy, thank you for being down here. Thank you for cleaning up. So it really impacted me and I realized in my journey that adults are no different. Gentlemen, our plant said to me one time, you know, Mr. Chapman, I get 10 things right and I never hear a word. I get one thing wrong and I get my ass and everybody every time I say this, you just see like this in the audience because we have a world where we focus on the brokenness, not the goodness. Okay? So what we do through our recognition and celebration program and again it's not about five years service, you get a plaque. It's about shining a light in the organization, looking for the goodness, holding up and saying thank you in a thoughtful way. There's a skill in rec. It's not that a boy pay raise. It is feelings, behaviors, and impact. And there's a skill and we're teaching that skill in universities. We have people for 40 hours a week and when they leave our care, they're inundated with the brokenness of the world. But I've got them for 40 hours a week. while they feel valued, if they feel heard, if

[00:18:12]
we recognize the goodness because when you recognize the goodness of Mary or Bill and you do it in a thoughtful way in a group, everybody feels good. So our our key to our culture is continually looking for the goodness and holding it up and saying thank you. >> I've heard you say so often we catch people doing things wrong. You you teach people to catch people doing things right. >> Right. What are some of the specific ways that you do recognition uh in the company? I mean in a place like this, it's a factory environment. It's I mean it's manufacturing. How do you do recognition here? >> It's very personal. We have basically called the shine a light the word and people can submit to us somebody who they feel embodies the spirit of our culture that they want to say thank you to. And it didn't occur to us at the time, but when you actually say to 12,000 people in the world, why don't you write and let us know if somebody you think lived these values, all of a sudden you get these notes from people

[00:19:12]
all over the world. I mean, from Serbia to China, whatever. And the beauty is they have to stop and think about the goodness of somebody else. Okay? Not the number of years of service, not the top sales award, just their goodness. Okay? The ramifications when people see recognized for their goodness, you just feel good. Okay? Our goal is when you leave our care for 40 hours a week, you go home with the energy to deal with the brokenness of the world because you see you've seen 40 hours a week you saw the goodness in the world. So it's a skill again it's feelings, behaviors and impact. We actually teach a class on how to do and quite often >> how to give someone a compliment. >> Quite often we do. Yes. How to recognize the goodness in somebody. So quite often we surprise the person and their family members come to witness it and it is profound the impact because for a son or daughter or mother or father to see their child recognized for their goodness in front of organization you can't even you can't measure that this cadence of constantly looking for the goodness in the world which I wish our media did remember the expression in

[00:20:14]
journalism what bleeds reads so what do we inundate our country with every day the brokenness of the world because that's what they feel creates leaders which creates income for their media. And so where do we see the goodness in the book? >> Let me jump ahead a little bit, which is, you know, I'm sure there are some people who buy into what you're saying, but there are some people who are cynical that this is all fine and good and hippie- dippy when the economy is great, but when the economy dips, you got to tighten the belt and focus on the numbers. You know, and we see it all the time. Even well-intentioned companies, as soon as, you know, something dips the numbers, the first thing to suffer is the people. They cut the recognition programs, they cut the spending on the leadership programs, they lay people off, right? >> You know, it's it's the first thing we do. So, it sounds like these things are all nice to have if you're thriving. >> What do you have to say to those companies that that's the first thing they cut people and programs? I mean, what does Barry Wemiller do? Well, it starts with we have a constitution of our culture, the guiding principle of

[00:21:15]
leadership. Yeah. And the vision is we measure success by the way we touch the lives of people. So we kind of have a constitution that guides us like our country does in terms of the responsibility of leadership. So if you embrace that and you end up with an economic situation, which we did in 089, which you've talked about for many years, >> it opened our mind to a totally different way. So it was shared sacrifice. So, as you know in 0809 because our orders dropped by 30%. And I was taught well you know what you got to do is you got to let people go because you know that's what just what you know. It's not personal. It's just what we do. I once as you know in the air force asked some of the generals how do you teach these young men and women to kill? They said we don't. We teach them to take out targets that made bad decisions. They try to dehumanize the hurt they're going to infect in dropping bombs. We do that in business. We rightsize the company. You know we organize the company. We gave the shareholders what they want. >> Reduce headcount. >> We dehumanize the impact. Psychological studies show that when people are let go, I walk up to you and say, "Sorry, I

[00:22:16]
know you just bought a house, but I'm going to have to let you go because we got to make the numbers work." It is a major failure of stewardship because I tell our people around the world, my primary responsibility as the leader of this company is to have a business model that you feel safe. Okay? that you can raise a family, you can have a home. And when people feel safe, you see a dramatic difference in their sense of the way they share, the way they help each other because they don't they're not that this cloud over their head now worried about layoffs are a broken part of our society. It means your business model failed. You let people down. >> I got to go deeper on that. You see, if you embrace layoffs, it means your business model failed. Most major public companies and unfortunately a lot of private companies but most major public companies have fully embraced layoffs as an regular mechanism to balance the books. Have their business models failed? >> Yes. Well, their leadership failed. Remember very profitable companies. Jack

[00:23:18]
Welch taught us years ago, you can always probably let 5% of your people go and you'll actually do better. Not just to reduce cost, but you know, it's good to kind of take the low performers out. So I was taught from very early age layoffs are a positive thing you do for a company because you improve profitability and investment advisors will come to your company and say you want to improve your image in the market lay off some people and and say we're going to we're going to make more money in it. So part of it is the investing public rewards companies that do this. Their share price goes up when they lay off people. To me, it should go down because they I mean, I guarantee you when a board considers a public company or private company considers a layoff where you're going to hurt people, okay? You're going to hurt people. They don't talk about consequence of those people. It's just so they'll find another job. How many weeks should we pay them for? I've never heard ever in my 50-year career ever heard a human way of talking about layoffs, downsizing, right? But we're taught just one of the things you do. It's not fun. It's not pleasant. So my responsibility to our people is make

[00:24:20]
sure you're safe in my care where we can create economic and human value in harmony. And when people feel safe, they will share greater gifts with you. You will attract greater talent. There's no downside to caring. Yeah. Okay. No downside. Some people think it's just about being nice. Okay? >> It's much more profound like parenting is being nice. Parenting is not being nice and being a good steward of the child in your care. Leadership is identical. And part of it is having a safe business model where they can raise a family, they can count on you and put their trust in you and have a career with you. That is a foundational responsibility. And I've never heard that said before. >> I think a lot of leaders forget about the ripples, right? Which is they understand that, you know, even though they don't talk about it or think about it, the impact it has on people's lives when they get laid off, they also forget about the people who didn't lose their jobs, but they watch their friends get laid off. Now fear is injected into the system. Am I next? You know, and one of the craziest things I've seen is companies announce we're going to lay off 20,000 people. We're going to do a thousand a week. And [clears throat]

[00:25:21]
you're just like, how on earth do you think that risk-taking and entrepreneurship and sticking your neck out for the greater good is going to happen? People are going to retreat. They're going to keep their heads down because the unbelievable fear that that I'm next. Not to mention the fact that it sucks to see your friends get laid off for no fault of their own. It wasn't a meritocracy. And you said boards aren't talking about the impact on the lives of the people they lay off. And they're also not talking about how it'll affect the culture for many many months beyond if not years. >> You know, Simon, some people say to me, how do you justify this investment, this cost of caring for your people, your university, your classes? I look at them, I say, I don't need to justify caring. How do you justify not caring? Because people really struggle going from using people to care about people because you know there's major bridge to cross for most people. But I say nobody has to justify safety. In other words, safety glasses, hard to shoes, safety. No, no company. Why? Because we have

[00:26:22]
workman's compensation insurance and we want to manage the cost of it. So it's a cost. Okay. So I would say to you, we don't have to justify safety. Why do we have to justify caring? Because this caring is the safety of your soul. that treating that young man or young woman or person in your care as you would want your son or daughter treated. I mean, a lot of people ask me, "What do you do about the people who don't get it?" I said, "Treat them like you would want your son or daughter treated, but they didn't get it." Oh, that would be different. I said, "Why is it different? That's somebody's son or daughter you're treating." So, the way we see people affects the way we treat people. And if you see them as functions, it's a lot easier to downsize, lights. But if you see them as somebody's precious child who simply wants to know they matter, it profoundly shapes the way you take the responsibility for your business model, how you're going to deal with the ups and downs of business. And all I can tell you is our culture is attracting unbelievable talent, opportunities to bring other companies together into our family, and our customers love our culture. Love our

[00:27:23]
culture. It is inspiring a lot of people because it's the foundation is I was never taught this as you know it occurred through a series of revelation but caring is contagious when you treat people with respect and dignity it releases in them the capacity for care for others and the pride you will get the healing you will get and and is is profound and so I would say to you I don't need to justify this because you know our company we've had a 25 year growth in our share price like 12% compound for 25 years 12% compounded growth for 20 years in our share price. Okay? >> In your share price. >> Okay? Because [clears throat] we have a very technical way of creating share price that emulates the market. >> And so I'd say to you, we have exceeded almost everybody, you know, for a long period of time. We take a long-term view. >> So anybody cynical who says no, but performance, performance, performance. Okay, fine. What you're demonstrating is that your leadership strategy outperforms the market. So, if you just look at the statistics that you've heard me say that 88% of all

[00:28:24]
people feel they work for an organization that doesn't care about them. And if you hear the statistics, three out of four people are disengaged in what they're doing. When you look at the 12,000, 5,000, 200 people work for you. And you know, these statistics say that they're doing what they need to do to keep their job. They're not giving you their gifts and you're sending them home damaged because you were not good stewards of that life. It just changes the view I was taught and I experienced in the first half of my career. And that's why I say business could be the most profound source of good in the world if we simply knew how to care for the people we have the privilege of leading. We have a society right now based on money, power, and position. It doesn't matter how you get it as long as you get it legally because then you can write a check to charity and they'll have a banquet to celebrate your goodness. They won't ask you how you got your money. They'll celebrate you. And I say to CEOs around the world, the greatest act of charity is not the checks you write. The greatest act of charity is how you treat the people you have the privilege of leading. I have

[00:29:25]
CEOs on here now and then. And honestly, in general, CEOs are the worst guests because it's hard to have candid conversations with them. They're very, very media trained. They come in with their talking points. You know, it doesn't matter what I ask. They know how to get their point across. They're going to tell me about their success. They're going to tell me about their product. They're going to tell me about the quality. I mean, I'm sitting here in one of your factories and not once have we talked about your product, what this factory makes, the quality that you're outperforming the market. And this is completely opposite than almost every other CEO I talked to. >> Well, Simon, again, it was a couple years ago that university organizational development professors interviewed me for an hour and a half. normal interview. At the end of hour and a half, they said, "We have never talked to a CEO that never talked about your product." And I sat back and I said, "We've been talking about our product for the last hour and a half. It's our

[00:30:25]
people." Okay? I'm not going to go to my grave proud of the machinery we built because we build great machinery. I'm going to go to my grave proud of the people that built that. It caught them completely off guard. >> I met you because you reached out to me um and and showed me this magical place. I got to know you and I decided to write about uh this amazing place that you had built in in in a book I wrote called Leaders Eat Last. You're sort of the the central character in that book, I would argue. And you and I have become friends over the years and and and you've been a mentor to me. I've learned a lot about how to improve my own leadership ability from you. What have you learned even about yourself over these past 15 years? Like the Bob I met 15 years ago and the Bob now. Tell me what's different, what's grown, what's new. >> Well, again, because of my traditional education background, I was totally focused on organic growth and profitability and market share, all the things that you were focused on. That was the first half of my career. And I

[00:31:25]
did well and I was I inherited a business that was challenged, $20 million business, went through my challenging periods, but I grew from it. And I was doing well when these revelations happened. >> It wasn't desperation or failure. No, no, we were doing very well at the time. But when you have these revelations about seeing people not as functions, but as somebody's child who's placed in your care, knowing that the 40 hours you have them will profoundly impact their marriage and their relationship with the kids and their health. It changes everything. >> I get that. But what have you learned over the past 15 years since I met you? Because you'd already had that revelation when I met you. That's why I met you. I mean, it's you wanted to show me what you would had built >> in the past 15 years. Because I have an answer. I'll tell you something I've noticed that's different about you since I met you, but I'm curious where what you think yourself. >> Well, Simon, when you came, we were on this journey. Yeah. And it was just an incremental journey and you came in and you saw something that we didn't see. I mean, we thought things were going well, but you amplified our awareness that we

[00:32:27]
had been blessed. And so what I have learned because since we first met, I've given hundreds of speeches around the world, the Harvard case study, the TEDex talk you did, the book, there's no question as I sit here today, since we first met, that some higher power is using us to show the world the way he meant it to be, where people genuinely care for each other. Today I feel this tremendous calling to take this responsibility of this message I've been blessed with and make sure it lives well beyond my time with voices like yours, your books, your your talks around the world. So I feel this tremendous sense of obligation. Why would somebody pick a manufacturing company in America that makes machinery to show the world what it should be? Okay. Okay. Why would he pick a carpenter to, you know, be the father of our Christ? So I would say to you I feel a profound and it grows because the reaction I mean I speak in healthcare, I speak in the military, I speak in Congress, I speak in everywhere I speak

[00:33:29]
I see the hurt in the world and so I'd say to you what has been amplified is because you've opened the door to the world. How could we have a culture here in a traditional business that the world said I've never seen anything like how is that possible? I'm just a simple accountant from North St. lowest run in a manufacturing group because we were blessed with a message that could heal the world. And when I look today as we talk, the issues we face in the world. I see business as a source of destruction creating economic value but not human value and and I feel a profound sense of responsibility with you and our partnership. Change the way the world sees this responsibility to people they have the privilege of leading. >> I really like the way at the beginning of our conversation you distinguish between we have a prosperous economy but not a healthy economy. We have prosperous companies, but not healthy companies. They're prosperous because they make money, but they're not healthy because the lives of the people who work in those companies are not healthy as a result of those broken corporate cultures. I like that distinction. And we want our companies to be healthy and

[00:34:30]
prosperous, not healthy or prosperous or prosperous or healthy. I love that distinction. And I I I want to tell the story when I first went on the tour of all your factories and I saw this thing and I remember saying to you, I can no longer be accused of being a crazy idealist because what I imagine exists in reality. I remember seeing the magic and then you introduced me to the culture team that had that was responsible for these classes and helping you implement what you imagined. And after I'd seen this tour and you knew my opinion of what I'd seen, I remember they all sitting there with big smiles thinking I was just going to say, "You guys are amazing. You guys are amazing." They all waiting with a big smile on their face. And I remember my first comments to your culture team were, "I think you may be the most selfish company I've ever met." I said, and I remember them all shocked. And I said, "Oh, yeah. I saw what you built and it is nothing short of remarkable. And it is incredible what you have done for the lives of back then 3,000 people." I said, 'Me meanwhile there are millions of people struggling at work and you are keeping to yourselves

[00:35:33]
something that the world would benefit from and I remember it was on that day you sort of said batter up and you started on the speaking circuit to share what you'd done. You've written your book Everybody Matters to get the word out there. You set up uh consultancy to help companies learn what you're doing. you set up a not for-p profofit to bring the listening courses to civil servants around the the country so that they may benefit from the learning so you can help policing organizations, ambulances, nurses, firefighters that these are the people that you're helping with these with these courses. It's been an amazing thing for me to watch this small company that was very insular and doing something amazing that you you really are one of the leaders of the the movement to make business a force for good for the health of people not just for the prosperity of people. It's been an amazing journey. Simon, as you know, while we're sharing this message with your encouragement and looking for people who believe what we believe and show it's possible. And it still amazes

[00:36:35]
me in the work we've done in the last 15 years. You know, all my talks around the world to every part of the society, nobody debates what you and I are just saying. >> I know. >> They just have no idea because we have a society that is founded on success is money, power, and position. Yeah. >> And Okay. And so what we're working desperately on because the long-term cure we can I can go out and work with major companies and help them learn to care which we're doing through the Chapman Leadership Institute major corporations and the feedback is phenomenal. We're fixing adults and as you know one day I said why do we need to fix adults and I looked and I said oh my god our education system is around academic achievement. >> Yeah. >> But we're not teaching as we are in our university human skills. So now we're incredibly dedicated to elevating the purpose of education to create tomorrow's leaders in every part of our city from healthcare to nonprofit to military to government who have the skills and courage to care and and that means the board of directors. I mean we

[00:37:36]
just have a society that's built around successes, money, power, and position. And until we change that, people want to have successful life and then they get there and it's not fulfilling. They're not happy. So again, we're kind of self-destructing for economic gain and we're hurting people in the process and we're destroying the future for our kids. >> Do you want to know how I've seen you change since I've met you? >> I gotten older. >> Well, [laughter] not not not in spirit. You have the same amazing energy from when I first met you. Um, you are softer and I don't mean your voice is softer. It took years before I saw you choke up for the first time because of what you were saying. >> [snorts] >> And uh I see you choke up more often now. It was always personal, but it's become really personal and and you're more willing to wear your emotions on your sleeve more than you used to. You used to give me like, you know, sort of like good to see you, Simon. Sort of like a tap on the shoulder, you know, and then

[00:38:36]
it became like a tap on the back and then it became a bro hug. And now you hug me, you know, you hug me with love. And I've seen that. I felt that. That's going to that's going to make me cry. [laughter] Um I wish leaders took leadership as personally as you. You know, they see it as a rank or position. They see it as as power and authority. Um but they don't take it as seriously as raising a child. And you take taking care of your people as seriously as taking care of your children. I mean, it is not a punchline when you say that everybody who works for you is someone's son and someone's daughter. I mean, you deeply mean it. You deeply feel it. I have the pleasure of getting to talk to you when we're off camera. And what people don't understand is this preaching that you do when you're on a microphone. This is how you are all the time. [laughter] >> I mean, like, can't you just have dinner? >> My wife reminds me of that all Don't we

[00:39:37]
just have dinner? [laughter] Like, I got it. I got it. I heard it. >> But it's so ingrained in who you are and how personally you take this. It's such a source of inspiration. I got to tell you, I know people who turn it on and turn it off. And you can't turn it off. It's it's core to who you are. >> I always say, Simon, you can retire from a job, but you cannot retire from a calling. >> Yeah. I'm sure you can imagine what it feels like when I get in front of crowds all over the world and I see people come to tears get standing ovations because h can you imagine how it feels again all the talks I've given in all parts of the country to have the most healing message that people ever heard I mean the reaction to our message universally yeah >> stand ovation emotions because it gives people hope to think that some higher power selected this kid from North St. with an accounting degree. >> Yeah. >> To show the world the way he meant it to be is profoundly meaningful. I mean, I

[00:40:37]
don't know [laughter] how I don't how you don't get emotional when you think I'm carrying a message that could heal the world. I mean, how do you handle something like that without emotion? I mean, you can't it's not an academic feeling. It is right down here. And you can't say things about this message when you get the feedback. The healing power of this is profound. And when look at the issues we face in this country and the world that I get this exposure to talk to people all over the world and I see the same reaction. It's a universal truth in our world that people simply want to know they are. >> And the big joke of it all, the big joke of it all is you are one of the highest performing companies in your category. You outperform the markets. Your people love working here. People want their children to work here. You have generations of people working here. I I I I met Lance before. His dad worked here. He works here. His his kids work here. His daughter-in-law works here. His wife

[00:41:37]
works here. I mean, and it's there are there are other opportunities. There are other places to work in Phillips. They they want to work here. They want their kids to work here. Like to have that level of devotion and love. I talked to people. I walked around today. We talked to some of your folks who it is a joy for them to go the extra mile for you. It doesn't feel like a burden or a task. They are grateful to give you more. And this is what is so astonishing to me that though you don't do it for the business reasons, the connection is so damn obvious. Your people are just better people than in other companies. They themselves are not better, but they were given the opportunity to be their best selves at Barry Way Miller. And the company and they are the beneficiaries because a profitable company means you can expand and take better care of your people. You can expand the number of classes available. You can invest in in training and you can invest in all the nice things because the business model works. And this is the thing that drives me nuts. It drives me nuts that people

[00:42:38]
want us to give economic reasons why they should do this rather than >> human reasons. I mean, I mean, it's like, give me an economic reason why I should be good to my child. If I'm good to my child, will my child increase their earning potential? You know, why not just raise a good kid and see what happens? Like, inherently, we know that I and to think that it's different here. And you're right, the level of dehumanization, you're 100% right. And we see it in our nation, right? When we dehumanize the other, when we create names to distance ourselves from that person being a human being, we see it in politics. We see it around our our nation. And when management de dehumanizes the people who work for them, as you said that, what's the headcount? I know in your company, you don't have headcounts. You have heart counts. It's very hard to reduce a heart count. I'm aware of that language matters. Nobody here says my boss. They say my leader. You say all the time, nobody wakes up in the morning to to be managed. We wake up to be led. There's no managers here. They're all leaders. I

[00:43:39]
understand that the language matters. And and you're using language that humanizes people, whereas the rest of business is using language that dehumanizes people. So even when they do do layoffs, they do it in such an inhuman way or you show up to work and your key card just doesn't work or you get an email that says, "Sorry, just business. You have no job anymore. Effective today." Right? The more we've dehumanized the workforce, the more we treat them as if they're not humans, you know, >> because remember, Simon, I'm going back to what I said, what I was taught and what I experienced in the world. >> Yeah. >> Is the lens that was shaped by that education experiences. People were functions for my success. I needed that person, that machinist, that assembler, that accountant for my success. Okay? I was a nice guy. We had a nice company, but I saw people as functions for my success. And that day at the wedding when I saw those two precious kids getting married and I realized that all 12,000 odd people around the world are

[00:44:39]
just like that young man and young lady. They simply want to know the matter. That day my lens reversed and I saw people that somebody's precious child. The way we see people affects the way we treat people. If we treat people as labor, as workforce, you know, as union members or as shop people, the language of business is broken. It dehumanizes. Okay? And so again, the good news is >> that we are clearly with your help, your voice in the world, your book, your voice, your P is the world is is validating that this is the way to go. And we are on a journey to transform and create a more caring world where people feel they matter. regardless of your role in a company that you feel you matter. And when you do that, you see this goodness come out of people. Again, I want to make sure you cannot ask people to care. You can't go to the CEO of a major company and say, "You need to care about your people and say, "Sure, I do, but we're going to have a layoff next week, but you know, I care about okay, but I pay them well and they got

[00:45:39]
good benefit." We have to change the whole perspective of our society where we are stewards of the people we have the privilege to lead. greatest act of charity is not the checks you write to the cancer society or all those other noble causes. The greatest act of charity is how you treat the people you have the privilege of leading. Yeah. That is the greatest. And if we had that, we wouldn't need all the charities to to fix the brokenness of the world. You told me a story a bunch of years ago of a wealthy guy who had retired and he'd made boatloads of cash running a very very large business and he came to you for advice on how to be a philanthropist on how to distribute that money and you asked him what are you proud of and he said well I started this charity where we help inner city kids go to college and you asked well how many kids have you helped and he says, "So far 13." And he said, "I'm really, really proud of the work we're doing." And you said to him, "I find it confusing that you're proud

[00:46:41]
of the charity, that you're proud that you helped 13 inner city kids go to college, yet you did it. You accomplished that by destroying the lives of the 100,000 people who worked for you." that that it never occurred to him that he could be helping people throughout an entire career rather than saving money and then trying to help a lot fewer people at the end of his career. >> Yeah. This is a gentleman in traditional terms extremely successful had contributed $120 million to his alma mada and had heard me speak and just flew out to talk to me. He was touched by my speech. Good Christian man, good values, good Midwestern values. And again the what led to that is I said what are you proud of in your life and he said this minority student athletic scholarship program. I had no idea of this company. So I just said again how many people work for your company? He said 100,000. I said so you really care about five or six people you can help with a scholarship and you don't care about the 100,000 people? And he

[00:47:42]
virtually leaned back in his chair and he said I never thought about that. And again, the one other story that amplifies that is was giving a speech in a church, a major church to a lunchon event and I did as a favor to somebody and a gentleman came up to me running a major international organization said, "I thought my job was to be the market leader in our industry in the world and we achieved that." I thought that was my job. But until I heard you speak, it never occurred to me to care for the 130,000 people in our organization. Then he added, you've given me a whole different purpose to my role. So again, the biggest message then is the way we treat people affects the way they go home and live. If we're worried about kids today, what's wrong with kids today? Where do they come from? They come from our families. Okay? What's wrong with the families? Parents come home from work exhausted. You know, okay, TGIF, thank God it's Friday. Get out of that place.

[00:48:42]
I imagine a day that with the work we're doing together, we're going to go to TGIM. Thank goodness it's money, get away from the kids, the spouse, and be back to a place where I really enjoy being a part of the team. So I would say to you the vision that we've been working on for 13 years, we have made tremendous progress in bringing this message to the world and to make sure that it will not die with me. That it will live on well beyond our time with your work, your book, your talks in our new book, Everybody Matters, a new edition. We have a chance to shape the world that desperately is looking for hope right now. >> Well, I promise you, I sent you an email years ago. >> I know it's framed in my office. >> I know. I know. I promised you years ago in an email I sent to you that I will carry your torch for all the years I have left and then I'll pass it on to the next person.

[00:49:43]
>> Thank you for your stewardship. >> I love you. [laughter] I really do. I'm so grateful for that crazy 1-hour lunch that became a three-hour lunch and this crazy adventure you've taken me on, you know, because uh we've said it a thousand times to each other. We validate each other's work, you know. I validated your work by saying in my work that's the right way. You know, I know I validated your your theories and your ideas at scale and you validated my work because it's I'm just an idiot idealist who writes about these what could happen and you made it real. This is a very large company. Make no mistake of it. This is thousands and thousands of employees, billions of dollars worth of revenue, international global company. I mean, this is not some little mom and pop corner store that takes care of its people. This is a large operation at scale. And you prove that not only are

[00:50:46]
the people happier and their families are happier and their communities are happier, but it is a phenomenal recipe for prosperity. Healthy people make for prosperous companies and healthy healthy people make for prosperous nations. Bob, thank you for being a light, a beacon. Thank you for being who you are. You know, we should probably turn it off right now [laughter] before we both just blubber fest. But you I I I see your soul when you talk because we've touched your soul. Not your mind, your soul. This is the way the world was meant to be. And when you see it, >> yeah, >> you know that this is the way it was meant to be. That we learn to care for each other. >> Amen. >> Amen. Thank you. >> As always, thank you for watching. If you liked this episode, please subscribe to Bit of Optimism for more interesting guests and even more interesting conversations. New episodes drop every Tuesday. But if you'd like more optimism right now, click here to watch another

[00:51:48]
episode. Until next time, take care of yourself. Take care of each other.