
[00:00:00]
SEAL Team Six is elite amongst the SEALs, right? You have to be in the regular SEALs for at least 5 years before you can even apply to be in SEAL Team Six. So, it is the elite of the elite when you talk about high-performing teams, right? And I had the opportunity to sit down with the head of training for SEAL Team Six. And I asked him a very simple question. How do you choose who goes from the SEALs into SEAL Team Six cuz they're all high high high high high performers. How do you choose who gets on this team? And he pulls out a piece of paper and he draws uh an XY axis and on the vertical he writes the word performance and on the horizontal he writes the word trust. And he explains the way he defines performance is how good are you at your job, obviously. And the way he defines trust is what kind of person are you, right? The way they put it is I may trust you with my life, but do I trust you with my money or my wife? Um so I would go into battle with you, but I'm not going to trust you in a time of

[00:01:01]
personal need, right? So, that that's how they define the difference. And as he explained it to me, he says, "Everybody wants this person, the high performer of high trust, obviously. Nobody wants this person, the low performer of low trust, obviously. What they have learned is that this person here, the high performer of low trust, is a toxic team member. And they would rather have a medium performer, sometimes even a low performer of high trust, over the high performer of low trust. And the problem with high performers of low trust is it's easy to measure their especially in business cuz it's dollars and cents. It's easy to measure them, sales numbers, whatever it is, right? But we don't we And and and and the other problem in business is if we have a we have a million metrics to measure someone's performance. That's how we usually define the meritocracy, but we have negligible to no metrics to measure somebody's trustworthiness. And if you keep promoting a toxic team member, eventually that toxic team member becomes a toxic leader. And now the impact is even greater. And so what I love it when companies tell me that they're performance driven blah blah blah, right? Because I look at

[00:02:01]
literally one of the highest performing organizations on the planet and they value trust over performance. So, why do we have it differently? Right? Um and uh I think there's a lot to learn. Plus, the way that businesses interpret that very story right? Is individual performance and the way that the SEALs interpret that story is team performance. They call themselves team members and this is toxic team member. It's about group performance. The SEALs only think in terms of group performance. Will this person hurt the group? Not, will this person help themselves? And so, we have to do a better job as leaders of understanding the different skill sets that help the group um uh rather than help themselves cuz sometimes uh sometimes your highest performing people are your worst team players. And sometimes your greatest team players are not your best individual performers,

[00:03:01]
but they help the whole team rise.