
[00:00:00]
If you go back to the 50s and 60s, um you you were in the bowling league and you had your you made friends there. You attended church. You got your sense of belonging from from faith. Um you did actually have barbecues with your neighbors. And work was the place that you work you work and made a living and you didn't ask more you the only thing the relationship to work was I'll be loyal to you and you'll be loyal to me. I'll give you my whole career and you take care of me and and and I'll get a gold watch at the end. And so over the course of time, you know, church membership declined, the bowling leagues disappeared, we don't have barbecues with our neighbors anymore. And so what we started asking we started asking work to fill all the gaps. We said, "Okay, work. I want my friendships, I want my relationships at work, I want my social life at work, I want a sense of purpose and belonging at work. Oh, and by the way, now you have to agree with my politics as well, right? Oh, and no loyalty to you and no loyalty just to me from me from me right? There's no loyalty either way. And so we put

[00:01:01]
massive amounts of pressure on work um that is impossible. Ironically, we do the same thing to our relationships. I you know, which is and I wonder if it's for similar reasons, which is we're asking our our romantic partners to be everything offer everything perfect companionship, perfect intellectual compatibility, you know, my everything all the time. It's too much for one person to bear. Like we don't invest the same attention to friendship that we do to other relationships. I when I talk to my favorite favorite couples like I I there's people there's couples that that I know who are like when I look at them I'm like, "I want a relationship like that. You're my favorite relationship." Um if you ask all successful couples, "What is your secret?" They all say the same thing. It's hard work and we do the work. It's hard work and we do the work. If you talk to great leaders and you ask them, "What's your secret?" You say, "It's hard work and we do the work." When you talk to friends, nobody says, it's hard work and I do the work. It just doesn't happen. Now, some people

[00:02:02]
do, but not enough people recognize that maintaining relationships, all relationships, requires effort. And it's difficult.