
[00:00:00]
There are many people in the world who have great theories. Once in a generation, once in a hundred years, you'll somebody will come along who is able to define a truth. Jim Carse is one of those people, and he defined these two types of games, finite games and infinite games. A finite game is defined as known players, fixed rules, and an agreed-upon objective. Football, baseball. If there's a winner, necessarily there have to be losers, and more importantly, there's always a beginning, middle, and an end, always. Then you have infinite games. Infinite games are defined as um known and unknown players, which means new players can join at any time. Um the rules are changeable, which means every player can play however they want, and the objective is to perpetuate the game, to stay in the game as long as possible. One of the things I've learned since I learned Carse's work, which is when you play with a finite mindset in an infinite game, when you play to win in a game that has no finish line, decline of trust, decline of cooperation, decline of innovation. Right? Okay. Genius. I got to meet Jim Carse, my hero.

[00:01:01]
Of course, the first question I sit down with him, the first question I ask him is, "How did you come up with that?" Right? He In the 1970s, there were all these salons, and the concept of um uh game theory was all the rage in the 1970s. It was like It was like the AI of today. Like it's all anybody was talking about. And you know, like the concept of of the prisoner's dilemma, which some people may know, came out of one of these salons. They would get all these smart people together and talk about game theory. Everybody was talking about game theory. And they would bring economists and mathematicians and all the Everybody was talking about game theory. And And And Carse was invited to some of these salons. And all of these very, very, very smart people, he recognized that they were all talking about winning and losing. None of them were talking about playing. And he had this incredible insight that when he goes home and his kids play ping pong

[00:02:01]
there's always shouting and accusations of cheating. When his kids draw, play Lego, they'll play for hours. There's it's dead quiet the whole time. Kids will come and go and join and leave and join and leave. He started to realize that play play, not winning, not losing, not competition, but play is the place where magic happens, innovation happens, cooperation happens, love happens, teamwork happens. Right? And so I think the we undervalue play, but I think the idea of these infinite games where there is no conclusion, where you just draw, you do Lego, I think is is magical. And I think there should be more of it. I don't think there's enough play. There's a lot of competition, but I think we need more play.