
[00:00:00]
Most CFO's or COO's think that they're in line to be the CEO. We treat it as one and two, but it's incorrect. It's one and A. They are not the same skill set and they're not the same job and there are very few COO's or CFO's who are capable of being CEO's, but most of them are not. Because most CFO's and COO's by the very nature of their job have to be down and in. That is actually your job and a good CEO is up and out. That is the nature of your job. I don't like the term CEO either because it doesn't tell you what they're supposed to do. I like CVO, a chief vision officer, right? Because it tells you what the job is. And so you see this repeating pattern when you take a visionary, somebody who's up and out, and replace them with an operator, somebody who's down and in, and the companies change. So Howard

[00:01:01]
Schultz replaces himself with his CEO or CFO, the company goes into decline, Howard Schultz has to come back. Twice. Mike Dell replaces himself with his CEO or CFO and Mike Dell has to come back. Twice. Made the same mistake twice. Bill Gates replaces himself with the one of a remarkably talented operator. You know, Ballmer is a very, very talented operator when he's working alongside a visionary. But absent the visionary, the company goes into steep decline, innovation declines, they can't hold on to talent, they can't attract talent, they're getting destroyed until Ballmer's pushed out and a new visionary shows up, and Nadella. When was the last time Apple led anything? Like have you used the new iOS? Like Apple is a me too company now. They're just they just they don't need any markets at all. It's because it's being run by an

[00:02:01]
operator. And and for anybody who if you know people at Apple, the politics are at an all-time high. Um the but the the executives are all stabbing each other in the back. The first thing uh Cook announces when he shows up in the new job is we're going to pay dividends. Jobs never paid dividends because Jobs didn't care about running a company for the analysts. He ran a company for the customer. And the first thing Cook does is announce we're going to pay dividends. Um and we all know what happened. So, the good news is these companies are rich enough to survive poor leadership for quite a long time. I mean, Ballmer was there for like what, 13 years or something. Right? Uh uh but that's not always a foregone conclusion. And so, like I said, I know a couple CFOs or CEOs who who do have the ability to say, "I know what got me here is the thing that made me good at what I do, but I have to change the way I think. I have to be more infinite-minded and change the way I lead, even though it's

[00:03:02]
new and different." Um but it it's a it's a very common thing. And again, it's that balance of finite-minded and infinite-minded. That tension is very healthy. The tension between the that that one and A is exactly what you want. Cuz if if it's all up to the visionaries, you know, Roy Disney said of his brother, Roy Disney and and Walt Disney were that combination. Uh Roy Disney and and Roy Disney literally said of his brother, "If it weren't for me, Walt would have been arrested for bouncing checks." Right? Cuz Walt's a creative genius, doesn't know how to run a business. Roy was a was a could run a business, but not a visionary. Wasn't had didn't wasn't a creative guy. And that magic, that tension, makes for great businesses. I love partnership. One and A is what it should be. I want both. I I want one or the other. I want both. And that's why I consider them equals, not one and two. >> Yeah. It's the irony, which is we sort of lionize and canonize the visionaries, but the reality is visionaries can't do

[00:04:02]
it without talented operators around them. Operators can build good businesses, they won't change the world and they won't change markets. They'll just run good businesses.