
[00:00:00]
People say, I want to have kids. Nobody ever says, I would like to raise kids for 18 years. Right? >> Not just 18. >> Yeah, 25 years. Like, having kids is the fun easy part. Uh, raising kids is the part that every new parent is like, what the Uh. Parenthood, uh, right? Like every parent I am new parent I know was so excited when they're holding their baby and then the changes. The Um, leadership is kind of similar. Which is everybody's like, oh my god, I I own my own business. This is Okay, now you have to lead. >> Right. >> The people. People. Uh, and that's the part that's really hard, unexpected, and sometimes lonely and unrewarding. Um, and you know, it's not it's the it's the frustrating part. The process is easy, you can figure that out. The systems you can master, but the people part is undergoing and and it's sometimes

[00:01:01]
overwhelming. Um, and so like being a parent, the best leaders uh, whether by choice or because they're forced to, uh, become students of leadership. They read books, they read articles, they come to things like this, they watch talks. Just like when you're a parent, you talk to your parents, you talk to your friends how they're doing things. You read books, you watch talks, it's the same thing. Um, you have to become a student of the thing that you didn't expect you're going to have to do. Um, uh, and like being a parent the it's worth it for the unexpected glimmers. When you see your team come together to solve a problem without you. Just like you catch your kids sharing when you didn't expect it, you know? It's the unexpected glimmers of of somebody who's all of a sudden has this confidence and is like becoming a leader themselves. And it'll happen at times that you can't predict and it'll make the journey worth it. I mean, that's what service is, remember? Ser- This is what This is what it means to serve, which is we want to see those

[00:02:01]
around us rise. And to serve those who serve others is the greatest joy anyone can achieve in life. I I believe that true true purpose is the opportunity to serve those who serve others.