
[00:00:00]
Money is a result. Money comes at the end of something, not at the beginning of something. If you're If you're profitable, it comes at the end of something. The question is what's the input? It's kind of think of it like passion, right? I love it when organizations say to me, I'm like, you know, we only hire passionate people. You know, how do you know that they're passionate for interviewing not so passionate for working? You know? Um At the end of the day, passion is not an input. Passion is an output. Every human being on the planet is passionate for something. But are they passionate for the thing that you're doing? And you can take somebody in the same industry and put them in two different companies and they'll have passion at one company and no passion at the other even though their job and what the company does are exactly the same. It's because the culture is different. The values are different. If I'm surrounded by people who share my values and if I believe in the vision of the organization, what you get from me is passion. Um if you work at the other company, then I'm only doing it for the money and that's just transactional. So as long as you're paying me, I'll show up at work, but you're going to get not the maximum.

[00:01:00]
You're not going to get my best. You'll get what You're going to get what you're going to get. And that's a transactional relationship. And I would hate I would hate to know that if people are just doing it for the money, like I said, it's going to be a transactional relationship. I want people to come with love. Love is a word that is not often used in work, right? And there's a big difference between like and love. Like is rational. I like the people. I like the challenge. They pay me well. I like my job. But how many people say I love my job, right? And like I said, those are very different things. Like, do you love your wife? I like her a lot, right? The point is The point is is we instinctively know that those are different standards. Right. And so And so if you if you study leadership, you start with why. You You incentivize people based on values not just performance. What you do is you create a culture that people come to work and they say, I love my job, which means they give you more blood, sweat, and tears. They give you their best ideas. And as important or

[00:02:01]
more important, they're there to help each others thrive, not try to outdo each other, or stab each other in the back for the next bonus.